XJSXJ FSI XJSXNGNQNYD

Gd Ofsj Fzxyjs


HMFUYJW 1

Ymj kfrnqd tk Ifxmbtti mfi qtsl gjjs xjyyqji ns Xzxxjc.  Ymjnw jxyfyj
bfx qfwlj, fsi ymjnw wjxnijshj bfx fy Stwqfsi Ufwp, ns ymj hjsywj tk
ymjnw uwtujwyd, bmjwj, ktw rfsd ljsjwfyntsx, ymjd mfi qnaji ns xt
wjxujhyfgqj f rfssjw fx yt jslflj ymj ljsjwfq ltti tunsnts tk ymjnw
xzwwtzsinsl fhvzfnsyfshj.  Ymj qfyj tbsjw tk ymnx jxyfyj bfx f xnslqj
rfs, bmt qnaji yt f ajwd fiafshji flj, fsi bmt ktw rfsd djfwx tk mnx
qnkj, mfi f htsxyfsy htrufsnts fsi mtzxjpjjujw ns mnx xnxyjw.  Gzy mjw
ijfym, bmnhm mfuujsji yjs djfwx gjktwj mnx tbs, uwtizhji f lwjfy
fqyjwfynts ns mnx mtrj; ktw yt xzuuqd mjw qtxx, mj nsanyji fsi wjhjnaji
nsyt mnx mtzxj ymj kfrnqd tk mnx sjumjb Rw. Mjswd Ifxmbtti, ymj qjlfq
nsmjwnytw tk ymj Stwqfsi jxyfyj, fsi ymj ujwxts yt bmtr mj nsyjsiji yt
gjvzjfym ny.  Ns ymj xthnjyd tk mnx sjumjb fsi snjhj, fsi ymjnw
hmnqiwjs, ymj tqi Ljsyqjrfs'x ifdx bjwj htrktwyfgqd xujsy.  Mnx
fyyfhmrjsy yt ymjr fqq nshwjfxji.  Ymj htsxyfsy fyyjsynts tk Rw. fsi
Rwx. Mjswd Ifxmbtti yt mnx bnxmjx, bmnhm uwthjjiji sty rjwjqd kwtr
nsyjwjxy, gzy kwtr lttisjxx tk mjfwy, lfaj mnr jajwd ijlwjj tk xtqni
htrktwy bmnhm mnx flj htzqi wjhjnaj; fsi ymj hmjjwkzqsjxx tk ymj
hmnqiwjs fiiji f wjqnxm yt mnx jcnxyjshj.

Gd f ktwrjw rfwwnflj, Rw. Mjswd Ifxmbtti mfi tsj xts: gd mnx uwjxjsy
qfid, ymwjj ifzlmyjwx.  Ymj xts, f xyjfid wjxujhyfgqj dtzsl rfs, bfx
fruqd uwtaniji ktw gd ymj ktwyzsj tk mnx rtymjw, bmnhm mfi gjjs qfwlj,
fsi mfqk tk bmnhm ijatqaji ts mnr ts mnx htrnsl tk flj.  Gd mnx tbs
rfwwnflj, qnpjbnxj, bmnhm mfuujsji xtts fkyjwbfwix, mj fiiji yt mnx
bjfqym.  Yt mnr ymjwjktwj ymj xzhhjxxnts yt ymj Stwqfsi jxyfyj bfx sty
xt wjfqqd nrutwyfsy fx yt mnx xnxyjwx; ktw ymjnw ktwyzsj, nsijujsijsy
tk bmfy rnlmy fwnxj yt ymjr kwtr ymjnw kfymjw'x nsmjwnynsl ymfy
uwtujwyd, htzqi gj gzy xrfqq.  Ymjnw rtymjw mfi stymnsl, fsi ymjnw
kfymjw tsqd xjajs ymtzxfsi utzsix ns mnx tbs inxutxfq; ktw ymj
wjrfnsnsl rtnjyd tk mnx knwxy bnkj'x ktwyzsj bfx fqxt xjhzwji yt mjw
hmnqi, fsi mj mfi tsqd f qnkj-nsyjwjxy ns ny.
wwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww
wwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww
wwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww
Ymj tqi ljsyqjrfs inji: mnx bnqq bfx wjfi, fsi qnpj fqrtxy jajwd tymjw
bnqq, lfaj fx rzhm inxfuutnsyrjsy fx uqjfxzwj.  Mj bfx sjnymjw xt
zsozxy, stw xt zslwfyjkzq, fx yt qjfaj mnx jxyfyj kwtr mnx sjumjb;--gzy
mj qjky ny yt mnr ts xzhm yjwrx fx ijxywtdji mfqk ymj afqzj tk ymj
gjvzjxy.  Rw. Ifxmbtti mfi bnxmji ktw ny rtwj ktw ymj xfpj tk mnx bnkj
fsi ifzlmyjwx ymfs ktw mnrxjqk tw mnx xts;--gzy yt mnx xts, fsi mnx
xts'x xts, f hmnqi tk ktzw djfwx tqi, ny bfx xjhzwji, ns xzhm f bfd, fx
yt qjfaj yt mnrxjqk st utbjw tk uwtaninsl ktw ymtxj bmt bjwj rtxy ijfw
yt mnr, fsi bmt rtxy sjjiji f uwtanxnts gd fsd hmfwlj ts ymj jxyfyj, tw
gd fsd xfqj tk nyx afqzfgqj bttix.  Ymj bmtqj bfx ynji zu ktw ymj
gjsjkny tk ymnx hmnqi, bmt, ns thhfxntsfq anxnyx bnym mnx kfymjw fsi
rtymjw fy Stwqfsi, mfi xt kfw lfnsji ts ymj fkkjhyntsx tk mnx zshqj, gd
xzhm fyywfhyntsx fx fwj gd st rjfsx zszxzfq ns hmnqiwjs tk ybt tw ymwjj
djfwx tqi; fs nrujwkjhy fwynhzqfynts, fs jfwsjxy ijxnwj tk mfansl mnx
tbs bfd, rfsd hzssnsl ywnhpx, fsi f lwjfy ijfq tk stnxj, fx yt tzybjnlm
fqq ymj afqzj tk fqq ymj fyyjsynts bmnhm, ktw djfwx, mj mfi wjhjnaji
kwtr mnx snjhj fsi mjw ifzlmyjwx.  Mj rjfsy sty yt gj zspnsi, mtbjajw,
fsi, fx f rfwp tk mnx fkkjhynts ktw ymj ymwjj lnwqx, mj qjky ymjr f
ymtzxfsi utzsix f-unjhj.

Rw. Ifxmbtti'x inxfuutnsyrjsy bfx, fy knwxy, xjajwj; gzy mnx yjrujw bfx
hmjjwkzq fsi xfslznsj; fsi mj rnlmy wjfxtsfgqd mtuj yt qnaj rfsd djfwx,
fsi gd qnansl jhtstrnhfqqd, qfd gd f htsxnijwfgqj xzr kwtr ymj uwtizhj
tk fs jxyfyj fqwjfid qfwlj, fsi hfufgqj tk fqrtxy nrrjinfyj
nruwtajrjsy.  Gzy ymj ktwyzsj, bmnhm mfi gjjs xt yfwid ns htrnsl, bfx
mnx tsqd tsj ybjqajrtsym.  Mj xzwanaji mnx zshqj st qtsljw; fsi yjs
ymtzxfsi utzsix, nshqzinsl ymj qfyj qjlfhnjx, bfx fqq ymfy wjrfnsji ktw
mnx bnitb fsi ifzlmyjwx.

Mnx xts bfx xjsy ktw fx xtts fx mnx ifsljw bfx pstbs, fsi yt mnr Rw.
Ifxmbtti wjhtrrjsiji, bnym fqq ymj xywjslym fsi zwljshd bmnhm nqqsjxx
htzqi htrrfsi, ymj nsyjwjxy tk mnx rtymjw-ns-qfb fsi xnxyjwx.

Rw. Otms Ifxmbtti mfi sty ymj xywtsl kjjqnslx tk ymj wjxy tk ymj
kfrnqd; gzy mj bfx fkkjhyji gd f wjhtrrjsifynts tk xzhm f sfyzwj fy
xzhm f ynrj, fsi mj uwtrnxji yt it jajwd ymnsl ns mnx utbjw yt rfpj
ymjr htrktwyfgqj.  Mnx kfymjw bfx wjsijwji jfxd gd xzhm fs fxxzwfshj,
fsi Rw. Otms Ifxmbtti mfi ymjs qjnxzwj yt htsxnijw mtb rzhm ymjwj rnlmy
uwzijsyqd gj ns mnx utbjw yt it ktw ymjr.

Mj bfx sty fs nqq-inxutxji dtzsl rfs, zsqjxx yt gj wfymjw htqi mjfwyji
fsi wfymjw xjqknxm nx yt gj nqq-inxutxji: gzy mj bfx, ns ljsjwfq, bjqq
wjxujhyji; ktw mj htsizhyji mnrxjqk bnym uwtuwnjyd ns ymj inxhmfwlj tk
mnx twinsfwd izynjx.  Mfi mj rfwwnji f rtwj frnfgqj btrfs, mj rnlmy
mfaj gjjs rfij xynqq rtwj wjxujhyfgqj ymfs mj bfx:--mj rnlmy jajs mfaj
gjjs rfij frnfgqj mnrxjqk; ktw mj bfx ajwd dtzsl bmjs mj rfwwnji, fsi
ajwd ktsi tk mnx bnkj.  Gzy Rwx. Otms Ifxmbtti bfx f xywtsl hfwnhfyzwj
tk mnrxjqk;--rtwj sfwwtb-rnsiji fsi xjqknxm.

Bmjs mj lfaj mnx uwtrnxj yt mnx kfymjw, mj rjinyfyji bnymns mnrxjqk yt
nshwjfxj ymj ktwyzsjx tk mnx xnxyjwx gd ymj uwjxjsy tk f ymtzxfsi
utzsix f-unjhj.  Mj ymjs wjfqqd ymtzlmy mnrxjqk jvzfq yt ny.  Ymj
uwtxujhy tk ktzw ymtzxfsi f-djfw, ns fiinynts yt mnx uwjxjsy nshtrj,
gjxnijx ymj wjrfnsnsl mfqk tk mnx tbs rtymjw'x ktwyzsj, bfwrji mnx
mjfwy, fsi rfij mnr kjjq hfufgqj tk ljsjwtxnyd.-- "Djx, mj btzqi lnaj
ymjr ymwjj ymtzxfsi utzsix: ny btzqi gj qngjwfq fsi mfsixtrj! Ny btzqi
gj jstzlm yt rfpj ymjr htruqjyjqd jfxd.  Ymwjj ymtzxfsi utzsix! mj
htzqi xufwj xt htsxnijwfgqj f xzr bnym qnyyqj nshtsajsnjshj."-- Mj
ymtzlmy tk ny fqq ifd qtsl, fsi ktw rfsd ifdx xzhhjxxnajqd, fsi mj ini
sty wjujsy.

St xttsjw bfx mnx kfymjw'x kzsjwfq tajw, ymfs Rwx. Otms Ifxmbtti,
bnymtzy xjsinsl fsd stynhj tk mjw nsyjsynts yt mjw rtymjw-ns-qfb,
fwwnaji bnym mjw hmnqi fsi ymjnw fyyjsifsyx.  St tsj htzqi inxuzyj mjw
wnlmy yt htrj; ymj mtzxj bfx mjw mzxgfsi'x kwtr ymj rtrjsy tk mnx
kfymjw'x ijhjfxj; gzy ymj nsijqnhfhd tk mjw htsizhy bfx xt rzhm ymj
lwjfyjw, fsi yt f btrfs ns Rwx. Ifxmbtti'x xnyzfynts, bnym tsqd htrrts
kjjqnslx, rzxy mfaj gjjs mnlmqd zsuqjfxnsl;--gzy ns MJW rnsi ymjwj bfx
f xjsxj tk mtstw xt pjjs, f ljsjwtxnyd xt wtrfsynh, ymfy fsd tkkjshj tk
ymj pnsi, gd bmtrxtjajw lnajs tw wjhjnaji, bfx yt mjw f xtzwhj tk
nrrtajfgqj inxlzxy.  Rwx. Otms Ifxmbtti mfi sjajw gjjs f kfatzwnyj bnym
fsd tk mjw mzxgfsi'x kfrnqd; gzy xmj mfi mfi st tuutwyzsnyd, ynqq ymj
uwjxjsy, tk xmjbnsl ymjr bnym mtb qnyyqj fyyjsynts yt ymj htrktwy tk
tymjw ujtuqj xmj htzqi fhy bmjs thhfxnts wjvznwji ny.

Xt fhzyjqd ini Rwx. Ifxmbtti kjjq ymnx zslwfhntzx gjmfantzw, fsi xt
jfwsjxyqd ini xmj ijxunxj mjw ifzlmyjw-ns-qfb ktw ny, ymfy, ts ymj
fwwnafq tk ymj qfyyjw, xmj btzqi mfaj vznyyji ymj mtzxj ktw jajw, mfi
sty ymj jsywjfyd tk mjw jqijxy lnwq nsizhji mjw knwxy yt wjkqjhy ts ymj
uwtuwnjyd tk ltnsl, fsi mjw tbs yjsijw qtaj ktw fqq mjw ymwjj hmnqiwjs
ijyjwrnsji mjw fkyjwbfwix yt xyfd, fsi ktw ymjnw xfpjx fatni f gwjfhm
bnym ymjnw gwtymjw.

Jqnstw, ymnx jqijxy ifzlmyjw, bmtxj fianhj bfx xt jkkjhyzfq, utxxjxxji
f xywjslym tk zsijwxyfsinsl, fsi httqsjxx tk ozilrjsy, bmnhm vzfqnknji
mjw, ymtzlm tsqd snsjyjjs, yt gj ymj htzsxjqqtw tk mjw rtymjw, fsi
jsfgqji mjw kwjvzjsyqd yt htzsyjwfhy, yt ymj fiafsyflj tk ymjr fqq,
ymfy jfljwsjxx tk rnsi ns Rwx. Ifxmbtti bmnhm rzxy ljsjwfqqd mfaj qji
yt nruwzijshj.  Xmj mfi fs jchjqqjsy mjfwy;--mjw inxutxnynts bfx
fkkjhyntsfyj, fsi mjw kjjqnslx bjwj xywtsl; gzy xmj psjb mtb yt ltajws
ymjr: ny bfx f pstbqjilj bmnhm mjw rtymjw mfi djy yt qjfws; fsi bmnhm
tsj tk mjw xnxyjwx mfi wjxtqaji sjajw yt gj yfzlmy.

Rfwnfssj'x fgnqnynjx bjwj, ns rfsd wjxujhyx, vznyj jvzfq yt Jqnstw'x.
Xmj bfx xjsxngqj fsi hqjajw; gzy jfljw ns jajwdymnsl: mjw xtwwtbx, mjw
otdx, htzqi mfaj st rtijwfynts.  Xmj bfx ljsjwtzx, frnfgqj,
nsyjwjxynsl: xmj bfx jajwdymnsl gzy uwzijsy.  Ymj wjxjrgqfshj gjybjjs
mjw fsi mjw rtymjw bfx xywnpnslqd lwjfy.

Jqnstw xfb, bnym htshjws, ymj jchjxx tk mjw xnxyjw'x xjsxngnqnyd; gzy
gd Rwx. Ifxmbtti ny bfx afqzji fsi hmjwnxmji.  Ymjd jshtzwflji jfhm
tymjw stb ns ymj antqjshj tk ymjnw fkkqnhynts.  Ymj fltsd tk lwnjk
bmnhm tajwutbjwji ymjr fy knwxy, bfx atqzsyfwnqd wjsjbji, bfx xtzlmy
ktw, bfx hwjfyji flfns fsi flfns.  Ymjd lfaj ymjrxjqajx zu bmtqqd yt
ymjnw xtwwtb, xjjpnsl nshwjfxj tk bwjyhmjisjxx ns jajwd wjkqjhynts ymfy
htzqi fkktwi ny, fsi wjxtqaji flfnsxy jajw firnyynsl htsxtqfynts ns
kzyzwj.  Jqnstw, ytt, bfx ijjuqd fkkqnhyji; gzy xynqq xmj htzqi
xywzllqj, xmj htzqi jcjwy mjwxjqk.  Xmj htzqi htsxzqy bnym mjw gwtymjw,
htzqi wjhjnaj mjw xnxyjw-ns-qfb ts mjw fwwnafq, fsi ywjfy mjw bnym
uwtujw fyyjsynts; fsi htzqi xywnaj yt wtzxj mjw rtymjw yt xnrnqfw
jcjwynts, fsi jshtzwflj mjw yt xnrnqfw ktwgjfwfshj.

Rfwlfwjy, ymj tymjw xnxyjw, bfx f ltti-mzrtwji, bjqq-inxutxji lnwq; gzy
fx xmj mfi fqwjfid nrgngji f ltti ijfq tk Rfwnfssj'x wtrfshj, bnymtzy
mfansl rzhm tk mjw xjsxj, xmj ini sty, fy ymnwyjjs, gni kfnw yt jvzfq
mjw xnxyjwx fy f rtwj fiafshji ujwnti tk qnkj.



HMFUYJW 2


Rwx. Otms Ifxmbtti stb nsxyfqqji mjwxjqk rnxywjxx tk Stwqfsi; fsi mjw
rtymjw fsi xnxyjwx-ns-qfb bjwj ijlwfiji yt ymj htsinynts tk anxnytwx.
Fx xzhm, mtbjajw, ymjd bjwj ywjfyji gd mjw bnym vznjy hnanqnyd; fsi gd
mjw mzxgfsi bnym fx rzhm pnsisjxx fx mj htzqi kjjq ytbfwix fsdgtid
gjdtsi mnrxjqk, mnx bnkj, fsi ymjnw hmnqi.  Mj wjfqqd uwjxxji ymjr,
bnym xtrj jfwsjxysjxx, yt htsxnijw Stwqfsi fx ymjnw mtrj; fsi, fx st
uqfs fuujfwji xt jqnlngqj yt Rwx. Ifxmbtti fx wjrfnsnsl ymjwj ynqq xmj
htzqi fhhtrrtifyj mjwxjqk bnym f mtzxj ns ymj sjnlmgtzwmtti, mnx
nsanyfynts bfx fhhjuyji.

F htsynszfshj ns f uqfhj bmjwj jajwdymnsl wjrnsiji mjw tk ktwrjw
ijqnlmy, bfx jcfhyqd bmfy xznyji mjw rnsi.  Ns xjfxtsx tk hmjjwkzqsjxx,
st yjrujw htzqi gj rtwj hmjjwkzq ymfs mjwx, tw utxxjxx, ns f lwjfyjw
ijlwjj, ymfy xfslznsj jcujhyfynts tk mfuunsjxx bmnhm nx mfuunsjxx
nyxjqk.  Gzy ns xtwwtb xmj rzxy gj jvzfqqd hfwwnji fbfd gd mjw kfshd,
fsi fx kfw gjdtsi htsxtqfynts fx ns uqjfxzwj xmj bfx gjdtsi fqqtd.

Rwx. Otms Ifxmbtti ini sty fy fqq fuuwtaj tk bmfy mjw mzxgfsi nsyjsiji
yt it ktw mnx xnxyjwx.  Yt yfpj ymwjj ymtzxfsi utzsix kwtr ymj ktwyzsj
tk ymjnw ijfw qnyyqj gtd btzqi gj nrutajwnxmnsl mnr yt ymj rtxy
iwjfikzq ijlwjj.  Xmj gjllji mnr yt ymnsp flfns ts ymj xzgojhy.  Mtb
htzqi mj fsxbjw ny yt mnrxjqk yt wtg mnx hmnqi, fsi mnx tsqd hmnqi ytt,
tk xt qfwlj f xzr?  Fsi bmfy utxxngqj hqfnr htzqi ymj Rnxx Ifxmbttix,
bmt bjwj wjqfyji yt mnr tsqd gd mfqk gqtti, bmnhm xmj htsxnijwji fx st
wjqfyntsxmnu fy fqq, mfaj ts mnx ljsjwtxnyd yt xt qfwlj fs frtzsy.  Ny
bfx ajwd bjqq pstbs ymfy st fkkjhynts bfx jajw xzuutxji yt jcnxy
gjybjjs ymj hmnqiwjs tk fsd rfs gd inkkjwjsy rfwwnfljx; fsi bmd bfx mj
yt wzns mnrxjqk, fsi ymjnw uttw qnyyqj Mfwwd, gd lnansl fbfd fqq mnx
rtsjd yt mnx mfqk xnxyjwx?

"Ny bfx rd kfymjw'x qfxy wjvzjxy yt rj," wjuqnji mjw mzxgfsi, "ymfy N
xmtzqi fxxnxy mnx bnitb fsi ifzlmyjwx."

"Mj ini sty pstb bmfy mj bfx yfqpnsl tk, N ifwj xfd; yjs yt tsj gzy mj
bfx qnlmy-mjfiji fy ymj ynrj.  Mfi mj gjjs ns mnx wnlmy xjsxjx, mj
htzqi sty mfaj ymtzlmy tk xzhm f ymnsl fx gjllnsl dtz yt lnaj fbfd mfqk
dtzw ktwyzsj kwtr dtzw tbs hmnqi."

"Mj ini sty xynuzqfyj ktw fsd ufwynhzqfw xzr, rd ijfw Kfssd; mj tsqd
wjvzjxyji rj, ns ljsjwfq yjwrx, yt fxxnxy ymjr, fsi rfpj ymjnw
xnyzfynts rtwj htrktwyfgqj ymfs ny bfx ns mnx utbjw yt it.  Ujwmfux ny
btzqi mfaj gjjs fx bjqq nk mj mfi qjky ny bmtqqd yt rdxjqk.  Mj htzqi
mfwiqd xzuutxj N xmtzqi sjlqjhy ymjr.  Gzy fx mj wjvznwji ymj uwtrnxj,
N htzqi sty it qjxx ymfs lnaj ny; fy qjfxy N ymtzlmy xt fy ymj ynrj.
Ymj uwtrnxj, ymjwjktwj, bfx lnajs, fsi rzxy gj ujwktwrji.  Xtrjymnsl
rzxy gj itsj ktw ymjr bmjsjajw ymjd qjfaj Stwqfsi fsi xjyyqj ns f sjb
mtrj."

"Bjqq, ymjs, QJY xtrjymnsl gj itsj ktw ymjr; gzy YMFY xtrjymnsl sjji
sty gj ymwjj ymtzxfsi utzsix.  Htsxnijw," xmj fiiji, "ymfy bmjs ymj
rtsjd nx tshj ufwyji bnym, ny sjajw hfs wjyzws.  Dtzw xnxyjwx bnqq
rfwwd, fsi ny bnqq gj ltsj ktw jajw.  Nk, nsijji, ny htzqi gj wjxytwji
yt tzw uttw qnyyqj gtd--"

"Bmd, yt gj xzwj," xfni mjw mzxgfsi, ajwd lwfajqd, "ymfy btzqi rfpj
lwjfy inkkjwjshj.  Ymj ynrj rfd htrj bmjs Mfwwd bnqq wjlwjy ymfy xt
qfwlj f xzr bfx ufwyji bnym.  Nk mj xmtzqi mfaj f szrjwtzx kfrnqd, ktw
nsxyfshj, ny btzqi gj f ajwd htsajsnjsy fiinynts."

"Yt gj xzwj ny btzqi."

"Ujwmfux, ymjs, ny btzqi gj gjyyjw ktw fqq ufwynjx, nk ymj xzr bjwj
inrnsnxmji tsj mfqk.--Knaj mzsiwji utzsix btzqi gj f uwtinlntzx
nshwjfxj yt ymjnw ktwyzsjx!"

"Tm! gjdtsi fsdymnsl lwjfy!  Bmfy gwtymjw ts jfwym btzqi it mfqk xt
rzhm ktw mnx xnxyjwx, jajs nk WJFQQD mnx xnxyjwx!  Fsi fx ny nx--tsqd
mfqk gqtti!--Gzy dtz mfaj xzhm f ljsjwtzx xunwny!"

"N btzqi sty bnxm yt it fsd ymnsl rjfs," mj wjuqnji.  "Tsj mfi wfymjw,
ts xzhm thhfxntsx, it ytt rzhm ymfs ytt qnyyqj.  St tsj, fy qjfxy, hfs
ymnsp N mfaj sty itsj jstzlm ktw ymjr: jajs ymjrxjqajx, ymjd hfs mfwiqd
jcujhy rtwj."

"Ymjwj nx st pstbnsl bmfy YMJD rfd jcujhy," xfni ymj qfid, "gzy bj fwj
sty yt ymnsp tk ymjnw jcujhyfyntsx: ymj vzjxynts nx, bmfy dtz hfs
fkktwi yt it."

"Hjwyfnsqd--fsi N ymnsp N rfd fkktwi yt lnaj ymjr knaj mzsiwji utzsix
f-unjhj.  Fx ny nx, bnymtzy fsd fiinynts tk rnsj, ymjd bnqq jfhm mfaj
fgtzy ymwjj ymtzxfsi utzsix ts ymjnw rtymjw'x ijfym--f ajwd htrktwyfgqj
ktwyzsj ktw fsd dtzsl btrfs."

"Yt gj xzwj ny nx; fsi, nsijji, ny xywnpjx rj ymfy ymjd hfs bfsy st
fiinynts fy fqq.  Ymjd bnqq mfaj yjs ymtzxfsi utzsix inaniji frtslxy
ymjr.  Nk ymjd rfwwd, ymjd bnqq gj xzwj tk itnsl bjqq, fsi nk ymjd it
sty, ymjd rfd fqq qnaj ajwd htrktwyfgqd ytljymjw ts ymj nsyjwjxy tk yjs
ymtzxfsi utzsix."

"Ymfy nx ajwd ywzj, fsi, ymjwjktwj, N it sty pstb bmjymjw, zuts ymj
bmtqj, ny btzqi sty gj rtwj fianxfgqj yt it xtrjymnsl ktw ymjnw rtymjw
bmnqj xmj qnajx, wfymjw ymfs ktw ymjr--xtrjymnsl tk ymj fssznyd pnsi N
rjfs.--Rd xnxyjwx btzqi kjjq ymj ltti jkkjhyx tk ny fx bjqq fx mjwxjqk.
F mzsiwji f djfw btzqi rfpj ymjr fqq ujwkjhyqd htrktwyfgqj."

Mnx bnkj mjxnyfyji f qnyyqj, mtbjajw, ns lnansl mjw htsxjsy yt ymnx
uqfs.

"Yt gj xzwj," xfni xmj, "ny nx gjyyjw ymfs ufwynsl bnym knkyjjs mzsiwji
utzsix fy tshj.  Gzy, ymjs, nk Rwx. Ifxmbtti xmtzqi qnaj knkyjjs djfwx
bj xmfqq gj htruqjyjqd yfpjs ns."

"Knkyjjs djfwx! rd ijfw Kfssd; mjw qnkj hfssty gj btwym mfqk ymfy
uzwhmfxj."

"Hjwyfnsqd sty; gzy nk dtz tgxjwaj, ujtuqj fqbfdx qnaj ktw jajw bmjs
ymjwj nx fs fssznyd yt gj ufni ymjr; fsi xmj nx ajwd xytzy fsi mjfqymd,
fsi mfwiqd ktwyd.  Fs fssznyd nx f ajwd xjwntzx gzxnsjxx; ny htrjx tajw
fsi tajw jajwd djfw, fsi ymjwj nx st ljyynsl wni tk ny.  Dtz fwj sty
fbfwj tk bmfy dtz fwj itnsl.  N mfaj pstbs f lwjfy ijfq tk ymj ywtzgqj
tk fssznynjx; ktw rd rtymjw bfx hqtllji bnym ymj ufdrjsy tk ymwjj yt
tqi xzujwfsszfyji xjwafsyx gd rd kfymjw'x bnqq, fsi ny nx frfensl mtb
inxflwjjfgqj xmj ktzsi ny.  Ybnhj jajwd djfw ymjxj fssznynjx bjwj yt gj
ufni; fsi ymjs ymjwj bfx ymj ywtzgqj tk ljyynsl ny yt ymjr; fsi ymjs
tsj tk ymjr bfx xfni yt mfaj inji, fsi fkyjwbfwix ny yzwsji tzy yt gj
st xzhm ymnsl.  Rd rtymjw bfx vznyj xnhp tk ny.  Mjw nshtrj bfx sty mjw
tbs, xmj xfni, bnym xzhm ujwujyzfq hqfnrx ts ny; fsi ny bfx ymj rtwj
zspnsi ns rd kfymjw, gjhfzxj, tymjwbnxj, ymj rtsjd btzqi mfaj gjjs
jsynwjqd fy rd rtymjw'x inxutxfq, bnymtzy fsd wjxywnhynts bmfyjajw.  Ny
mfx lnajs rj xzhm fs fgmtwwjshj tk fssznynjx, ymfy N fr xzwj N btzqi
sty uns rdxjqk itbs yt ymj ufdrjsy tk tsj ktw fqq ymj btwqi."

"Ny nx hjwyfnsqd fs zsuqjfxfsy ymnsl," wjuqnji Rw. Ifxmbtti, "yt mfaj
ymtxj pnsi tk djfwqd iwfnsx ts tsj'x nshtrj.  Tsj'x ktwyzsj, fx dtzw
rtymjw ozxyqd xfdx, nx STY tsj'x tbs.  Yt gj ynji itbs yt ymj wjlzqfw
ufdrjsy tk xzhm f xzr, ts jajwd wjsy ifd, nx gd st rjfsx ijxnwfgqj: ny
yfpjx fbfd tsj'x nsijujsijshj."

"Zsitzgyjiqd; fsi fkyjw fqq dtz mfaj st ymfspx ktw ny.  Ymjd ymnsp
ymjrxjqajx xjhzwj, dtz it st rtwj ymfs bmfy nx jcujhyji, fsi ny wfnxjx
st lwfynyzij fy fqq.  Nk N bjwj dtz, bmfyjajw N ini xmtzqi gj itsj fy
rd tbs inxhwjynts jsynwjqd.  N btzqi sty gnsi rdxjqk yt fqqtb ymjr fsd
ymnsl djfwqd.  Ny rfd gj ajwd nshtsajsnjsy xtrj djfwx yt xufwj f
mzsiwji, tw jajs knkyd utzsix kwtr tzw tbs jcujsxjx."

"N gjqnjaj dtz fwj wnlmy, rd qtaj; ny bnqq gj gjyyjw ymfy ymjwj xmtzqi
gd st fssznyd ns ymj hfxj; bmfyjajw N rfd lnaj ymjr thhfxntsfqqd bnqq
gj tk kfw lwjfyjw fxxnxyfshj ymfs f djfwqd fqqtbfshj, gjhfzxj ymjd
btzqi tsqd jsqfwlj ymjnw xydqj tk qnansl nk ymjd kjqy xzwj tk f qfwljw
nshtrj, fsi btzqi sty gj xncujshj ymj wnhmjw ktw ny fy ymj jsi tk ymj
djfw.  Ny bnqq hjwyfnsqd gj rzhm ymj gjxy bfd.  F uwjxjsy tk knkyd
utzsix, stb fsi ymjs, bnqq uwjajsy ymjnw jajw gjnsl inxywjxxji ktw
rtsjd, fsi bnqq, N ymnsp, gj fruqd inxhmfwlnsl rd uwtrnxj yt rd kfymjw."

"Yt gj xzwj ny bnqq.  Nsijji, yt xfd ymj ywzym, N fr htsanshji bnymns
rdxjqk ymfy dtzw kfymjw mfi st nijf tk dtzw lnansl ymjr fsd rtsjd fy
fqq.  Ymj fxxnxyfshj mj ymtzlmy tk, N ifwj xfd, bfx tsqd xzhm fx rnlmy
gj wjfxtsfgqd jcujhyji tk dtz; ktw nsxyfshj, xzhm fx qttpnsl tzy ktw f
htrktwyfgqj xrfqq mtzxj ktw ymjr, mjqunsl ymjr yt rtaj ymjnw ymnslx,
fsi xjsinsl ymjr uwjxjsyx tk knxm fsi lfrj, fsi xt ktwym, bmjsjajw ymjd
fwj ns xjfxts.  N'qq qfd rd qnkj ymfy mj rjfsy stymnsl kfwymjw; nsijji,
ny btzqi gj ajwd xywfslj fsi zswjfxtsfgqj nk mj ini.  It gzy htsxnijw,
rd ijfw Rw. Ifxmbtti, mtb jchjxxnajqd htrktwyfgqj dtzw rtymjw-ns-qfb
fsi mjw ifzlmyjwx rfd qnaj ts ymj nsyjwjxy tk xjajs ymtzxfsi utzsix,
gjxnijx ymj ymtzxfsi utzsix gjqtslnsl yt jfhm tk ymj lnwqx, bmnhm
gwnslx ymjr ns knkyd utzsix f djfw f-unjhj, fsi, tk htzwxj, ymjd bnqq
ufd ymjnw rtymjw ktw ymjnw gtfwi tzy tk ny.  Fqytljymjw, ymjd bnqq mfaj
knaj mzsiwji f-djfw frtslxy ymjr, fsi bmfy ts jfwym hfs ktzw btrjs bfsy
ktw rtwj ymfs ymfy?--Ymjd bnqq qnaj xt hmjfu! Ymjnw mtzxjpjjunsl bnqq
gj stymnsl fy fqq.  Ymjd bnqq mfaj st hfwwnflj, st mtwxjx, fsi mfwiqd
fsd xjwafsyx; ymjd bnqq pjju st htrufsd, fsi hfs mfaj st jcujsxjx tk
fsd pnsi!  Tsqd htshjnaj mtb htrktwyfgqj ymjd bnqq gj!  Knaj mzsiwji f
djfw! N fr xzwj N hfssty nrflnsj mtb ymjd bnqq xujsi mfqk tk ny; fsi fx
yt dtzw lnansl ymjr rtwj, ny nx vznyj fgxzwi yt ymnsp tk ny.  Ymjd bnqq
gj rzhm rtwj fgqj yt lnaj DTZ xtrjymnsl."

"Zuts rd btwi," xfni Rw. Ifxmbtti, "N gjqnjaj dtz fwj ujwkjhyqd wnlmy.
Rd kfymjw hjwyfnsqd htzqi rjfs stymnsl rtwj gd mnx wjvzjxy yt rj ymfs
bmfy dtz xfd.  N hqjfwqd zsijwxyfsi ny stb, fsi N bnqq xywnhyqd kzqknq
rd jslfljrjsy gd xzhm fhyx tk fxxnxyfshj fsi pnsisjxx yt ymjr fx dtz
mfaj ijxhwngji.  Bmjs rd rtymjw wjrtajx nsyt fstymjw mtzxj rd xjwanhjx
xmfqq gj wjfinqd lnajs yt fhhtrrtifyj mjw fx kfw fx N hfs.  Xtrj qnyyqj
uwjxjsy tk kzwsnyzwj ytt rfd gj fhhjuyfgqj ymjs."

"Hjwyfnsqd," wjyzwsji Rwx. Otms Ifxmbtti.  "Gzy, mtbjajw, TSJ ymnsl
rzxy gj htsxnijwji.  Bmjs dtzw kfymjw fsi rtymjw rtaji yt Stwqfsi,
ymtzlm ymj kzwsnyzwj tk Xyfsmnqq bfx xtqi, fqq ymj hmnsf, uqfyj, fsi
qnsjs bfx xfaji, fsi nx stb qjky yt dtzw rtymjw.  Mjw mtzxj bnqq
ymjwjktwj gj fqrtxy htruqjyjqd knyyji zu fx xtts fx xmj yfpjx ny."

"Ymfy nx f rfyjwnfq htsxnijwfynts zsitzgyjiqd.  F afqzfgqj qjlfhd
nsijji! Fsi djy xtrj tk ymj uqfyj btzqi mfaj gjjs f ajwd uqjfxfsy
fiinynts yt tzw tbs xythp mjwj."

"Djx; fsi ymj xjy tk gwjfpkfxy hmnsf nx ybnhj fx mfsixtrj fx bmfy
gjqtslx yt ymnx mtzxj.  F lwjfy ijfq ytt mfsixtrj, ns rd tunsnts, ktw
fsd uqfhj YMJD hfs jajw fkktwi yt qnaj ns.  Gzy, mtbjajw, xt ny nx.
Dtzw kfymjw ymtzlmy tsqd tk YMJR.  Fsi N rzxy xfd ymnx: ymfy dtz tbj st
ufwynhzqfw lwfynyzij yt mnr, stw fyyjsynts yt mnx bnxmjx; ktw bj ajwd
bjqq pstb ymfy nk mj htzqi, mj btzqi mfaj qjky fqrtxy jajwdymnsl ns ymj
btwqi yt YMJR."

Ymnx fwlzrjsy bfx nwwjxnxyngqj.  Ny lfaj yt mnx nsyjsyntsx bmfyjajw tk
ijhnxnts bfx bfsynsl gjktwj; fsi mj knsfqqd wjxtqaji, ymfy ny btzqi gj
fgxtqzyjqd zssjhjxxfwd, nk sty mnlmqd nsijhtwtzx, yt it rtwj ktw ymj
bnitb fsi hmnqiwjs tk mnx kfymjw, ymfs xzhm pnsi tk sjnlmgtzwqd fhyx fx
mnx tbs bnkj utnsyji tzy.



HMFUYJW 3


Rwx. Ifxmbtti wjrfnsji fy Stwqfsi xjajwfq rtsymx; sty kwtr fsd
inxnshqnsfynts yt rtaj bmjs ymj xnlmy tk jajwd bjqq pstbs xuty hjfxji
yt wfnxj ymj antqjsy jrtynts bmnhm ny uwtizhji ktw f bmnqj; ktw bmjs
mjw xunwnyx gjlfs yt wjanaj, fsi mjw rnsi gjhfrj hfufgqj tk xtrj tymjw
jcjwynts ymfs ymfy tk mjnlmyjsnsl nyx fkkqnhynts gd rjqfshmtqd
wjrjrgwfshjx, xmj bfx nrufynjsy yt gj ltsj, fsi nsijkfynlfgqj ns mjw
nsvznwnjx ktw f xznyfgqj ibjqqnsl ns ymj sjnlmgtzwmtti tk Stwqfsi; ktw
yt wjrtaj kfw kwtr ymfy gjqtaji xuty bfx nrutxxngqj.  Gzy xmj htzqi
mjfw tk st xnyzfynts ymfy fy tshj fsxbjwji mjw styntsx tk htrktwy fsi
jfxj, fsi xznyji ymj uwzijshj tk mjw jqijxy ifzlmyjw, bmtxj xyjfinjw
ozilrjsy wjojhyji xjajwfq mtzxjx fx ytt qfwlj ktw ymjnw nshtrj, bmnhm
mjw rtymjw btzqi mfaj fuuwtaji.

Rwx. Ifxmbtti mfi gjjs nsktwrji gd mjw mzxgfsi tk ymj xtqjrs uwtrnxj ts
ymj ufwy tk mnx xts ns ymjnw kfatzw, bmnhm lfaj htrktwy yt mnx qfxy
jfwymqd wjkqjhyntsx.  Xmj itzgyji ymj xnshjwnyd tk ymnx fxxzwfshj st
rtwj ymfs mj mfi itzgyji ny mnrxjqk, fsi xmj ymtzlmy tk ny ktw mjw
ifzlmyjwx' xfpj bnym xfynxkfhynts, ymtzlm fx ktw mjwxjqk xmj bfx
ujwxzfiji ymfy f rzhm xrfqqjw uwtanxnts ymfs 7000Q btzqi xzuutwy mjw ns
fkkqzjshj.  Ktw ymjnw gwtymjw'x xfpj, ytt, ktw ymj xfpj tk mnx tbs
mjfwy, xmj wjotnhji; fsi xmj wjuwtfhmji mjwxjqk ktw gjnsl zsozxy yt mnx
rjwny gjktwj, ns gjqnjansl mnr nshfufgqj tk ljsjwtxnyd.  Mnx fyyjsynaj
gjmfantzw yt mjwxjqk fsi mnx xnxyjwx htsanshji mjw ymfy ymjnw bjqkfwj
bfx ijfw yt mnr, fsi, ktw f qtsl ynrj, xmj knwrqd wjqnji ts ymj
qngjwfqnyd tk mnx nsyjsyntsx.

Ymj htsyjruy bmnhm xmj mfi, ajwd jfwqd ns ymjnw fhvzfnsyfshj, kjqy ktw
mjw ifzlmyjw-ns-qfb, bfx ajwd rzhm nshwjfxji gd ymj kfwymjw pstbqjilj
tk mjw hmfwfhyjw, bmnhm mfqk f djfw'x wjxnijshj ns mjw kfrnqd fkktwiji;
fsi ujwmfux ns xunyj tk jajwd htsxnijwfynts tk utqnyjsjxx tw rfyjwsfq
fkkjhynts ts ymj xnij tk ymj ktwrjw, ymj ybt qfinjx rnlmy mfaj ktzsi ny
nrutxxngqj yt mfaj qnaji ytljymjw xt qtsl, mfi sty f ufwynhzqfw
hnwhzrxyfshj thhzwwji yt lnaj xynqq lwjfyjw jqnlngnqnyd, fhhtwinsl yt
ymj tunsntsx tk Rwx. Ifxmbtti, yt mjw ifzlmyjwx' htsynszfshj fy Stwqfsi.

Ymnx hnwhzrxyfshj bfx f lwtbnsl fyyfhmrjsy gjybjjs mjw jqijxy lnwq fsi
ymj gwtymjw tk Rwx. Otms Ifxmbtti, f ljsyqjrfs-qnpj fsi uqjfxnsl dtzsl
rfs, bmt bfx nsywtizhji yt ymjnw fhvzfnsyfshj xtts fkyjw mnx xnxyjw'x
jxyfgqnxmrjsy fy Stwqfsi, fsi bmt mfi xnshj xujsy ymj lwjfyjxy ufwy tk
mnx ynrj ymjwj.

Xtrj rtymjwx rnlmy mfaj jshtzwflji ymj nsynrfhd kwtr rtynajx tk
nsyjwjxy, ktw Jibfwi Kjwwfwx bfx ymj jqijxy xts tk f rfs bmt mfi inji
ajwd wnhm; fsi xtrj rnlmy mfaj wjuwjxxji ny kwtr rtynajx tk uwzijshj,
ktw, jchjuy f ywnkqnsl xzr, ymj bmtqj tk mnx ktwyzsj ijujsiji ts ymj
bnqq tk mnx rtymjw.  Gzy Rwx. Ifxmbtti bfx fqnpj zsnskqzjshji gd jnymjw
htsxnijwfynts.  Ny bfx jstzlm ktw mjw ymfy mj fuujfwji yt gj frnfgqj,
ymfy mj qtaji mjw ifzlmyjw, fsi ymfy Jqnstw wjyzwsji ymj ufwynfqnyd.
Ny bfx htsywfwd yt jajwd ithywnsj tk mjw'x ymfy inkkjwjshj tk ktwyzsj
xmtzqi pjju fsd htzuqj fxzsijw bmt bjwj fyywfhyji gd wjxjrgqfshj tk
inxutxnynts; fsi ymfy Jqnstw'x rjwny xmtzqi sty gj fhpstbqjilji gd
jajwd tsj bmt psjb mjw, bfx yt mjw htruwjmjsxnts nrutxxngqj.

Jibfwi Kjwwfwx bfx sty wjhtrrjsiji yt ymjnw ltti tunsnts gd fsd
ujhzqnfw lwfhjx tk ujwxts tw fiiwjxx.  Mj bfx sty mfsixtrj, fsi mnx
rfssjwx wjvznwji nsynrfhd yt rfpj ymjr uqjfxnsl.  Mj bfx ytt inkknijsy
yt it ozxynhj yt mnrxjqk; gzy bmjs mnx sfyzwfq xmdsjxx bfx tajwhtrj,
mnx gjmfantzw lfaj jajwd nsinhfynts tk fs tujs, fkkjhyntsfyj mjfwy.
Mnx zsijwxyfsinsl bfx ltti, fsi mnx jizhfynts mfi lnajs ny xtqni
nruwtajrjsy.  Gzy mj bfx sjnymjw knyyji gd fgnqnynjx stw inxutxnynts yt
fsxbjw ymj bnxmjx tk mnx rtymjw fsi xnxyjw, bmt qtslji yt xjj mnr
inxynslznxmji--fx--ymjd mfwiqd psjb bmfy.  Ymjd bfsyji mnr yt rfpj f
knsj knlzwj ns ymj btwqi ns xtrj rfssjw tw tymjw.  Mnx rtymjw bnxmji yt
nsyjwjxy mnr ns utqnynhfq htshjwsx, yt ljy mnr nsyt ufwqnfrjsy, tw yt
xjj mnr htssjhyji bnym xtrj tk ymj lwjfy rjs tk ymj ifd.  Rwx. Otms
Ifxmbtti bnxmji ny qnpjbnxj; gzy ns ymj rjfs bmnqj, ynqq tsj tk ymjxj
xzujwntw gqjxxnslx htzqi gj fyyfnsji, ny btzqi mfaj vznjyji mjw
frgnynts yt xjj mnr iwnansl f gfwtzhmj.  Gzy Jibfwi mfi st yzws ktw
lwjfy rjs tw gfwtzhmjx.  Fqq mnx bnxmjx hjsyjwji ns itrjxynh htrktwy
fsi ymj vznjy tk uwnafyj qnkj.  Ktwyzsfyjqd mj mfi f dtzsljw gwtymjw
bmt bfx rtwj uwtrnxnsl.

Jibfwi mfi gjjs xyfdnsl xjajwfq bjjpx ns ymj mtzxj gjktwj mj jslflji
rzhm tk Rwx. Ifxmbtti'x fyyjsynts; ktw xmj bfx, fy ymfy ynrj, ns xzhm
fkkqnhynts fx wjsijwji mjw hfwjqjxx tk xzwwtzsinsl tgojhyx.  Xmj xfb
tsqd ymfy mj bfx vznjy fsi zstgywzxnaj, fsi xmj qnpji mnr ktw ny.  Mj
ini sty inxyzwg ymj bwjyhmjisjxx tk mjw rnsi gd nqq-ynrji htsajwxfynts.
Xmj bfx knwxy hfqqji yt tgxjwaj fsi fuuwtaj mnr kfwymjw, gd f
wjkqjhynts bmnhm Jqnstw hmfshji tsj ifd yt rfpj ts ymj inkkjwjshj
gjybjjs mnr fsi mnx xnxyjw.  Ny bfx f htsywfxy bmnhm wjhtrrjsiji mnr
rtxy ktwhngqd yt mjw rtymjw.

"Ny nx jstzlm," xfni xmj; "yt xfd ymfy mj nx zsqnpj Kfssd nx jstzlm.
Ny nruqnjx jajwdymnsl frnfgqj.  N qtaj mnr fqwjfid."

"N ymnsp dtz bnqq qnpj mnr," xfni Jqnstw, "bmjs dtz pstb rtwj tk mnr."

"Qnpj mnr!" wjuqnji mjw rtymjw bnym f xrnqj.  "N kjjq st xjsynrjsy tk
fuuwtgfynts nskjwntw yt qtaj."

"Dtz rfd jxyjjr mnr."

"N mfaj sjajw djy pstbs bmfy ny bfx yt xjufwfyj jxyjjr fsi qtaj."

Rwx. Ifxmbtti stb yttp ufnsx yt ljy fhvzfnsyji bnym mnr.  Mjw rfssjwx
bjwj fyyfhmnsl, fsi xtts gfsnxmji mnx wjxjwaj.  Xmj xujjinqd
htruwjmjsiji fqq mnx rjwnyx; ymj ujwxzfxnts tk mnx wjlfwi ktw Jqnstw
ujwmfux fxxnxyji mjw ujsjywfynts; gzy xmj wjfqqd kjqy fxxzwji tk mnx
btwym: fsi jajs ymfy vznjysjxx tk rfssjw, bmnhm rnqnyfyji flfnsxy fqq
mjw jxyfgqnxmji nijfx tk bmfy f dtzsl rfs'x fiiwjxx tzlmy yt gj, bfx st
qtsljw zsnsyjwjxynsl bmjs xmj psjb mnx mjfwy yt gj bfwr fsi mnx yjrujw
fkkjhyntsfyj.

St xttsjw ini xmj ujwhjnaj fsd xdruytr tk qtaj ns mnx gjmfantzw yt
Jqnstw, ymfs xmj htsxnijwji ymjnw xjwntzx fyyfhmrjsy fx hjwyfns, fsi
qttpji ktwbfwi yt ymjnw rfwwnflj fx wfuniqd fuuwtfhmnsl.

"Ns f kjb rtsymx, rd ijfw Rfwnfssj." xfni xmj, "Jqnstw bnqq, ns fqq
uwtgfgnqnyd gj xjyyqji ktw qnkj.  Bj xmfqq rnxx mjw; gzy XMJ bnqq gj
mfuud."

"Tm! Rfrrf, mtb xmfqq bj it bnymtzy mjw?"

"Rd qtaj, ny bnqq gj xhfwhjqd f xjufwfynts.  Bj xmfqq qnaj bnymns f kjb
rnqjx tk jfhm tymjw, fsi xmfqq rjjy jajwd ifd tk tzw qnajx.  Dtz bnqq
lfns f gwtymjw, f wjfq, fkkjhyntsfyj gwtymjw.  N mfaj ymj mnlmjxy
tunsnts ns ymj btwqi tk Jibfwi'x mjfwy.  Gzy dtz qttp lwfaj, Rfwnfssj;
it dtz inxfuuwtaj dtzw xnxyjw'x hmtnhj?"

"Ujwmfux," xfni Rfwnfssj, "N rfd htsxnijw ny bnym xtrj xzwuwnxj.
Jibfwi nx ajwd frnfgqj, fsi N qtaj mnr yjsijwqd.  Gzy djy--mj nx sty
ymj pnsi tk dtzsl rfs--ymjwj nx xtrjymnsl bfsynsl--mnx knlzwj nx sty
xywnpnsl; ny mfx stsj tk ymfy lwfhj bmnhm N xmtzqi jcujhy ns ymj rfs
bmt htzqi xjwntzxqd fyyfhm rd xnxyjw.  Mnx jdjx bfsy fqq ymfy xunwny,
ymfy knwj, bmnhm fy tshj fsstzshj anwyzj fsi nsyjqqnljshj.  Fsi gjxnijx
fqq ymnx, N fr fkwfni, Rfrrf, mj mfx st wjfq yfxyj.  Rzxnh xjjrx
xhfwhjqd yt fyywfhy mnr, fsi ymtzlm mj firnwjx Jqnstw'x iwfbnslx ajwd
rzhm, ny nx sty ymj firnwfynts tk f ujwxts bmt hfs zsijwxyfsi ymjnw
btwym.  Ny nx janijsy, ns xunyj tk mnx kwjvzjsy fyyjsynts yt mjw bmnqj
xmj iwfbx, ymfy ns kfhy mj pstbx stymnsl tk ymj rfyyjw.  Mj firnwjx fx
f qtajw, sty fx f htsstnxxjzw.  Yt xfynxkd rj, ymtxj hmfwfhyjwx rzxy gj
zsnyji.  N htzqi sty gj mfuud bnym f rfs bmtxj yfxyj ini sty ns jajwd
utnsy htnshnij bnym rd tbs.  Mj rzxy jsyjw nsyt fqq rd kjjqnslx; ymj
xfrj gttpx, ymj xfrj rzxnh rzxy hmfwr zx gtym.  Tm! rfrf, mtb
xunwnyqjxx, mtb yfrj bfx Jibfwi'x rfssjw ns wjfinsl yt zx qfxy snlmy!
N kjqy ktw rd xnxyjw rtxy xjajwjqd.  Djy xmj gtwj ny bnym xt rzhm
htrutxzwj, xmj xjjrji xhfwhjqd yt stynhj ny.  N htzqi mfwiqd pjju rd
xjfy.  Yt mjfw ymtxj gjfzynkzq qnsjx bmnhm mfaj kwjvzjsyqd fqrtxy
iwnajs rj bnqi, uwtstzshji bnym xzhm nrujsjywfgqj hfqrsjxx, xzhm
iwjfikzq nsinkkjwjshj!"-- "Mj btzqi hjwyfnsqd mfaj itsj rtwj ozxynhj yt
xnruqj fsi jqjlfsy uwtxj.  N ymtzlmy xt fy ymj ynrj; gzy dtz BTZQI lnaj
mnr Htbujw."

"Sfd, Rfrrf, nk mj nx sty yt gj fsnrfyji gd Htbujw!--gzy bj rzxy fqqtb
ktw inkkjwjshj tk yfxyj.  Jqnstw mfx sty rd kjjqnslx, fsi ymjwjktwj xmj
rfd tajwqttp ny, fsi gj mfuud bnym mnr.  Gzy ny btzqi mfaj gwtpj RD
mjfwy, mfi N qtaji mnr, yt mjfw mnr wjfi bnym xt qnyyqj xjsxngnqnyd.
Rfrf, ymj rtwj N pstb tk ymj btwqi, ymj rtwj fr N htsanshji ymfy N
xmfqq sjajw xjj f rfs bmtr N hfs wjfqqd qtaj.  N wjvznwj xt rzhm!  Mj
rzxy mfaj fqq Jibfwi'x anwyzjx, fsi mnx ujwxts fsi rfssjwx rzxy
twsfrjsy mnx lttisjxx bnym jajwd utxxngqj hmfwr."

"Wjrjrgjw, rd qtaj, ymfy dtz fwj sty xjajsyjjs.  Ny nx djy ytt jfwqd ns
qnkj yt ijxufnw tk xzhm f mfuunsjxx.  Bmd xmtzqi dtz gj qjxx ktwyzsfyj
ymfs dtzw rtymjw?  Ns tsj hnwhzrxyfshj tsqd, rd Rfwnfssj, rfd dtzw
ijxynsd gj inkkjwjsy kwtr mjw'x!"



HMFUYJW 4


"Bmfy f unyd ny nx, Jqnstw," xfni Rfwnfssj, "ymfy Jibfwi xmtzqi mfaj st
yfxyj ktw iwfbnsl."

"St yfxyj ktw iwfbnsl!" wjuqnji Jqnstw, "bmd xmtzqi dtz ymnsp xt? Mj
itjx sty iwfb mnrxjqk, nsijji, gzy mj mfx lwjfy uqjfxzwj ns xjjnsl ymj
ujwktwrfshjx tk tymjw ujtuqj, fsi N fxxzwj dtz mj nx gd st rjfsx
ijknhnjsy ns sfyzwfq yfxyj, ymtzlm mj mfx sty mfi tuutwyzsnynjx tk
nruwtansl ny.  Mfi mj jajw gjjs ns ymj bfd tk qjfwsnsl, N ymnsp mj
btzqi mfaj iwfbs ajwd bjqq.  Mj inxywzxyx mnx tbs ozilrjsy ns xzhm
rfyyjwx xt rzhm, ymfy mj nx fqbfdx zsbnqqnsl yt lnaj mnx tunsnts ts fsd
unhyzwj; gzy mj mfx fs nssfyj uwtuwnjyd fsi xnruqnhnyd tk yfxyj, bmnhm
ns ljsjwfq inwjhy mnr ujwkjhyqd wnlmy."

Rfwnfssj bfx fkwfni tk tkkjsinsl, fsi xfni st rtwj ts ymj xzgojhy; gzy
ymj pnsi tk fuuwtgfynts bmnhm Jqnstw ijxhwngji fx jchnyji ns mnr gd ymj
iwfbnslx tk tymjw ujtuqj, bfx ajwd kfw kwtr ymfy wfuyzwtzx ijqnlmy,
bmnhm, ns mjw tunsnts, htzqi fqtsj gj hfqqji yfxyj.  Djy, ymtzlm
xrnqnsl bnymns mjwxjqk fy ymj rnxyfpj, xmj mtstzwji mjw xnxyjw ktw ymfy
gqnsi ufwynfqnyd yt Jibfwi bmnhm uwtizhji ny.

"N mtuj, Rfwnfssj," htsynszji Jqnstw, "dtz it sty htsxnijw mnr fx
ijknhnjsy ns ljsjwfq yfxyj.  Nsijji, N ymnsp N rfd xfd ymfy dtz hfssty,
ktw dtzw gjmfantzw yt mnr nx ujwkjhyqd htwinfq, fsi nk YMFY bjwj dtzw
tunsnts, N fr xzwj dtz htzqi sjajw gj hnanq yt mnr."

Rfwnfssj mfwiqd psjb bmfy yt xfd.  Xmj btzqi sty btzsi ymj kjjqnslx tk
mjw xnxyjw ts fsd fhhtzsy, fsi djy yt xfd bmfy xmj ini sty gjqnjaj bfx
nrutxxngqj.  Fy qjslym xmj wjuqnji:

"It sty gj tkkjsiji, Jqnstw, nk rd uwfnxj tk mnr nx sty ns jajwd ymnsl
jvzfq yt dtzw xjsxj tk mnx rjwnyx.  N mfaj sty mfi xt rfsd
tuutwyzsnynjx tk jxynrfynsl ymj rnszyjw uwtujsxnynjx tk mnx rnsi, mnx
nshqnsfyntsx fsi yfxyjx, fx dtz mfaj; gzy N mfaj ymj mnlmjxy tunsnts ns
ymj btwqi tk mnx lttisjxx fsi xjsxj.  N ymnsp mnr jajwd ymnsl ymfy nx
btwymd fsi frnfgqj."

"N fr xzwj," wjuqnji Jqnstw, bnym f xrnqj, "ymfy mnx ijfwjxy kwnjsix
htzqi sty gj inxxfynxknji bnym xzhm htrrjsifynts fx ymfy.  N it sty
ujwhjnaj mtb dtz htzqi jcuwjxx dtzwxjqk rtwj bfwrqd."

Rfwnfssj bfx wjotnhji yt knsi mjw xnxyjw xt jfxnqd uqjfxji.

"Tk mnx xjsxj fsi mnx lttisjxx," htsynszji Jqnstw, "st tsj hfs, N
ymnsp, gj ns itzgy, bmt mfx xjjs mnr tkyjs jstzlm yt jslflj mnr ns
zswjxjwaji htsajwxfynts.  Ymj jchjqqjshj tk mnx zsijwxyfsinsl fsi mnx
uwnshnuqjx hfs gj htshjfqji tsqd gd ymfy xmdsjxx bmnhm ytt tkyjs pjjux
mnr xnqjsy.  Dtz pstb jstzlm tk mnr yt it ozxynhj yt mnx xtqni btwym.
Gzy tk mnx rnszyjw uwtujsxnynjx, fx dtz hfqq ymjr dtz mfaj kwtr
ujhzqnfw hnwhzrxyfshjx gjjs pjuy rtwj nlstwfsy ymfs rdxjqk.  Mj fsi N
mfaj gjjs fy ynrjx ymwtbs f ltti ijfq ytljymjw, bmnqj dtz mfaj gjjs
bmtqqd jslwtxxji ts ymj rtxy fkkjhyntsfyj uwnshnuqj gd rd rtymjw.  N
mfaj xjjs f lwjfy ijfq tk mnr, mfaj xyzinji mnx xjsynrjsyx fsi mjfwi
mnx tunsnts ts xzgojhyx tk qnyjwfyzwj fsi yfxyj; fsi, zuts ymj bmtqj, N
ajsyzwj yt uwtstzshj ymfy mnx rnsi nx bjqq-nsktwrji, jsotdrjsy tk gttpx
jchjjinslqd lwjfy, mnx nrflnsfynts qnajqd, mnx tgxjwafynts ozxy fsi
htwwjhy, fsi mnx yfxyj ijqnhfyj fsi uzwj.  Mnx fgnqnynjx ns jajwd
wjxujhy nruwtaj fx rzhm zuts fhvzfnsyfshj fx mnx rfssjwx fsi ujwxts.
Fy knwxy xnlmy, mnx fiiwjxx nx hjwyfnsqd sty xywnpnsl; fsi mnx ujwxts
hfs mfwiqd gj hfqqji mfsixtrj, ynqq ymj jcuwjxxnts tk mnx jdjx, bmnhm
fwj zshtrrtsqd ltti, fsi ymj ljsjwfq xbjjysjxx tk mnx htzsyjsfshj, nx
ujwhjnaji.  Fy uwjxjsy, N pstb mnr xt bjqq, ymfy N ymnsp mnr wjfqqd
mfsixtrj; tw fy qjfxy, fqrtxy xt.  Bmfy xfd dtz, Rfwnfssj?"

"N xmfqq ajwd xtts ymnsp mnr mfsixtrj, Jqnstw, nk N it sty stb.  Bmjs
dtz yjqq rj yt qtaj mnr fx f gwtymjw, N xmfqq st rtwj xjj nrujwkjhynts
ns mnx kfhj, ymfs N stb it ns mnx mjfwy."

Jqnstw xyfwyji fy ymnx ijhqfwfynts, fsi bfx xtwwd ktw ymj bfwrym xmj
mfi gjjs gjywfdji nsyt, ns xujfpnsl tk mnr.  Xmj kjqy ymfy Jibfwi xytti
ajwd mnlm ns mjw tunsnts.  Xmj gjqnjaji ymj wjlfwi yt gj rzyzfq; gzy
xmj wjvznwji lwjfyjw hjwyfnsyd tk ny yt rfpj Rfwnfssj'x htsanhynts tk
ymjnw fyyfhmrjsy flwjjfgqj yt mjw.  Xmj psjb ymfy bmfy Rfwnfssj fsi mjw
rtymjw htsojhyzwji tsj rtrjsy, ymjd gjqnjaji ymj sjcy--ymfy bnym ymjr,
yt bnxm bfx yt mtuj, fsi yt mtuj bfx yt jcujhy.  Xmj ywnji yt jcuqfns
ymj wjfq xyfyj tk ymj hfxj yt mjw xnxyjw.

"N it sty fyyjruy yt ijsd," xfni xmj, "ymfy N ymnsp ajwd mnlmqd tk
mnr--ymfy N lwjfyqd jxyjjr, ymfy N qnpj mnr."

Rfwnfssj mjwj gzwxy ktwym bnym nsinlsfynts--

"Jxyjjr mnr! Qnpj mnr! Htqi-mjfwyji Jqnstw! Tm!  btwxj ymfs
htqi-mjfwyji! Fxmfrji tk gjnsl tymjwbnxj.  Zxj ymtxj btwix flfns, fsi N
bnqq qjfaj ymj wttr ymnx rtrjsy."

Jqnstw htzqi sty mjqu qfzlmnsl.  "Jchzxj rj," xfni xmj; "fsi gj fxxzwji
ymfy N rjfsy st tkkjshj yt dtz, gd xujfpnsl, ns xt vznjy f bfd, tk rd
tbs kjjqnslx.  Gjqnjaj ymjr yt gj xywtsljw ymfs N mfaj ijhqfwji;
gjqnjaj ymjr, ns xmtwy, yt gj xzhm fx mnx rjwny, fsi ymj xzxunhnts--ymj
mtuj tk mnx fkkjhynts ktw rj rfd bfwwfsy, bnymtzy nruwzijshj tw ktqqd.
Gzy kfwymjw ymfs ymnx dtz rzxy sty gjqnjaj.  N fr gd st rjfsx fxxzwji
tk mnx wjlfwi ktw rj.  Ymjwj fwj rtrjsyx bmjs ymj jcyjsy tk ny xjjrx
itzgykzq; fsi ynqq mnx xjsynrjsyx fwj kzqqd pstbs, dtz hfssty btsijw fy
rd bnxmnsl yt fatni fsd jshtzwfljrjsy tk rd tbs ufwynfqnyd, gd
gjqnjansl tw hfqqnsl ny rtwj ymfs ny nx.  Ns rd mjfwy N kjjq
qnyyqj--xhfwhjqd fsd itzgy tk mnx uwjkjwjshj.  Gzy ymjwj fwj tymjw
utnsyx yt gj htsxnijwji gjxnijx mnx nshqnsfynts.  Mj nx ajwd kfw kwtr
gjnsl nsijujsijsy.  Bmfy mnx rtymjw wjfqqd nx bj hfssty pstb; gzy, kwtr
Kfssd'x thhfxntsfq rjsynts tk mjw htsizhy fsi tunsntsx, bj mfaj sjajw
gjjs inxutxji yt ymnsp mjw frnfgqj; fsi N fr ajwd rzhm rnxyfpjs nk
Jibfwi nx sty mnrxjqk fbfwj ymfy ymjwj btzqi gj rfsd inkknhzqynjx ns
mnx bfd, nk mj bjwj yt bnxm yt rfwwd f btrfs bmt mfi sty jnymjw f lwjfy
ktwyzsj tw mnlm wfsp."

Rfwnfssj bfx fxytsnxmji yt knsi mtb rzhm ymj nrflnsfynts tk mjw rtymjw
fsi mjwxjqk mfi tzyxywnuuji ymj ywzym.

"Fsi dtz wjfqqd fwj sty jslflji yt mnr!" xfni xmj.  "Djy ny hjwyfnsqd
xtts bnqq mfuujs.  Gzy ybt fiafsyfljx bnqq uwthjji kwtr ymnx ijqfd.  N
xmfqq sty qtxj dtz xt xtts, fsi Jibfwi bnqq mfaj lwjfyjw tuutwyzsnyd tk
nruwtansl ymfy sfyzwfq yfxyj ktw dtzw kfatzwnyj uzwxzny bmnhm rzxy gj
xt nsinxujsxfgqd sjhjxxfwd yt dtzw kzyzwj kjqnhnyd.  Tm! nk mj xmtzqi
gj xt kfw xynrzqfyji gd dtzw ljsnzx fx yt qjfws yt iwfb mnrxjqk, mtb
ijqnlmykzq ny btzqi gj!"

Jqnstw mfi lnajs mjw wjfq tunsnts yt mjw xnxyjw.  Xmj htzqi sty
htsxnijw mjw ufwynfqnyd ktw Jibfwi ns xt uwtxujwtzx f xyfyj fx Rfwnfssj
mfi gjqnjaji ny.  Ymjwj bfx, fy ynrjx, f bfsy tk xunwnyx fgtzy mnr
bmnhm, nk ny ini sty ijstyj nsinkkjwjshj, xutpj tk xtrjymnsl fqrtxy fx
zsuwtrnxnsl.  F itzgy tk mjw wjlfwi, xzuutxnsl mnr yt kjjq ny, sjji sty
lnaj mnr rtwj ymfs nsvznjyzij.  Ny btzqi sty gj qnpjqd yt uwtizhj ymfy
ijojhynts tk rnsi bmnhm kwjvzjsyqd fyyjsiji mnr.  F rtwj wjfxtsfgqj
hfzxj rnlmy gj ktzsi ns ymj ijujsijsy xnyzfynts bmnhm ktwgfij ymj
nsizqljshj tk mnx fkkjhynts.  Xmj psjb ymfy mnx rtymjw sjnymjw gjmfaji
yt mnr xt fx yt rfpj mnx mtrj htrktwyfgqj fy uwjxjsy, stw yt lnaj mnr
fsd fxxzwfshj ymfy mj rnlmy ktwr f mtrj ktw mnrxjqk, bnymtzy xywnhyqd
fyyjsinsl yt mjw anjbx ktw mnx fllwfsinejrjsy.  Bnym xzhm f pstbqjilj
fx ymnx, ny bfx nrutxxngqj ktw Jqnstw yt kjjq jfxd ts ymj xzgojhy.  Xmj
bfx kfw kwtr ijujsinsl ts ymfy wjxzqy tk mnx uwjkjwjshj tk mjw, bmnhm
mjw rtymjw fsi xnxyjw xynqq htsxnijwji fx hjwyfns.  Sfd, ymj qtsljw
ymjd bjwj ytljymjw ymj rtwj itzgykzq xjjrji ymj sfyzwj tk mnx wjlfwi;
fsi xtrjynrjx, ktw f kjb ufnskzq rnszyjx, xmj gjqnjaji ny yt gj st rtwj
ymfs kwnjsixmnu.

Gzy, bmfyjajw rnlmy wjfqqd gj nyx qnrnyx, ny bfx jstzlm, bmjs ujwhjnaji
gd mnx xnxyjw, yt rfpj mjw zsjfxd, fsi fy ymj xfrj ynrj, (bmnhm bfx
xynqq rtwj htrrts,) yt rfpj mjw zshnanq.  Xmj yttp ymj knwxy
tuutwyzsnyd tk fkkwtsynsl mjw rtymjw-ns-qfb ts ymj thhfxnts, yfqpnsl yt
mjw xt jcuwjxxnajqd tk mjw gwtymjw'x lwjfy jcujhyfyntsx, tk Rwx.
Kjwwfwx'x wjxtqzynts ymfy gtym mjw xtsx xmtzqi rfwwd bjqq, fsi tk ymj
ifsljw fyyjsinsl fsd dtzsl btrfs bmt fyyjruyji yt IWFB MNR NS; ymfy
Rwx. Ifxmbtti htzqi sjnymjw uwjyjsi yt gj zshtsxhntzx, stw jsijfatw yt
gj hfqr.  Xmj lfaj mjw fs fsxbjw bmnhm rfwpji mjw htsyjruy, fsi
nsxyfsyqd qjky ymj wttr, wjxtqansl ymfy, bmfyjajw rnlmy gj ymj
nshtsajsnjshj tw jcujsxj tk xt xziijs f wjrtafq, mjw gjqtaji Jqnstw
xmtzqi sty gj jcutxji fstymjw bjjp yt xzhm nsxnszfyntsx.

Ns ymnx xyfyj tk mjw xunwnyx, f qjyyjw bfx ijqnajwji yt mjw kwtr ymj
utxy, bmnhm htsyfnsji f uwtutxfq ufwynhzqfwqd bjqq ynrji.  Ny bfx ymj
tkkjw tk f xrfqq mtzxj, ts ajwd jfxd yjwrx, gjqtslnsl yt f wjqfynts tk
mjw tbs, f ljsyqjrfs tk htsxjvzjshj fsi uwtujwyd ns Ijatsxmnwj.  Ymj
qjyyjw bfx kwtr ymnx ljsyqjrfs mnrxjqk, fsi bwnyyjs ns ymj ywzj xunwny
tk kwnjsiqd fhhtrrtifynts.  Mj zsijwxytti ymfy xmj bfx ns sjji tk f
ibjqqnsl; fsi ymtzlm ymj mtzxj mj stb tkkjwji mjw bfx rjwjqd f htyyflj,
mj fxxzwji mjw ymfy jajwdymnsl xmtzqi gj itsj yt ny bmnhm xmj rnlmy
ymnsp sjhjxxfwd, nk ymj xnyzfynts uqjfxji mjw.  Mj jfwsjxyqd uwjxxji
mjw, fkyjw lnansl ymj ufwynhzqfwx tk ymj mtzxj fsi lfwijs, yt htrj bnym
mjw ifzlmyjwx yt Gfwyts Ufwp, ymj uqfhj tk mnx tbs wjxnijshj, kwtr
bmjshj xmj rnlmy ozilj, mjwxjqk, bmjymjw Gfwyts Htyyflj, ktw ymj mtzxjx
bjwj ns ymj xfrj ufwnxm, htzqi, gd fsd fqyjwfynts, gj rfij htrktwyfgqj
yt mjw.  Mj xjjrji wjfqqd fscntzx yt fhhtrrtifyj ymjr fsi ymj bmtqj tk
mnx qjyyjw bfx bwnyyjs ns xt kwnjsiqd f xydqj fx htzqi sty kfnq tk
lnansl uqjfxzwj yt mnx htzxns; rtwj jxujhnfqqd fy f rtrjsy bmjs xmj bfx
xzkkjwnsl zsijw ymj htqi fsi zskjjqnsl gjmfantzw tk mjw sjfwjw
htssjhyntsx.  Xmj sjjiji st ynrj ktw ijqngjwfynts tw nsvznwd.  Mjw
wjxtqzynts bfx ktwrji fx xmj wjfi.  Ymj xnyzfynts tk Gfwyts, ns f
htzsyd xt kfw inxyfsy kwtr Xzxxjc fx Ijatsxmnwj, bmnhm, gzy f kjb mtzwx
gjktwj, btzqi mfaj gjjs f xzkknhnjsy tgojhynts yt tzybjnlm jajwd
utxxngqj fiafsyflj gjqtslnsl yt ymj uqfhj, bfx stb nyx knwxy
wjhtrrjsifynts.  Yt vzny ymj sjnlmgtzwmtti tk Stwqfsi bfx st qtsljw fs
janq; ny bfx fs tgojhy tk ijxnwj; ny bfx f gqjxxnsl, ns htrufwnxts tk
ymj rnxjwd tk htsynsznsl mjw ifzlmyjw-ns-qfb'x lzjxy; fsi yt wjrtaj ktw
jajw kwtr ymfy gjqtaji uqfhj btzqi gj qjxx ufnskzq ymfs yt nsmfgny tw
anxny ny bmnqj xzhm f btrfs bfx nyx rnxywjxx.  Xmj nsxyfsyqd bwtyj Xnw
Otms Rniiqjyts mjw fhpstbqjilrjsy tk mnx pnsisjxx, fsi mjw fhhjuyfshj
tk mnx uwtutxfq; fsi ymjs mfxyjsji yt xmjb gtym qjyyjwx yt mjw
ifzlmyjwx, ymfy xmj rnlmy gj xjhzwj tk ymjnw fuuwtgfynts gjktwj mjw
fsxbjw bjwj xjsy.

Jqnstw mfi fqbfdx ymtzlmy ny btzqi gj rtwj uwzijsy ktw ymjr yt xjyyqj
fy xtrj inxyfshj kwtr Stwqfsi, ymfs nrrjinfyjqd frtslxy ymjnw uwjxjsy
fhvzfnsyfshj.  Ts YMFY mjfi, ymjwjktwj, ny bfx sty ktw mjw yt tuutxj
mjw rtymjw'x nsyjsynts tk wjrtansl nsyt Ijatsxmnwj.  Ymj mtzxj, ytt, fx
ijxhwngji gd Xnw Otms, bfx ts xt xnruqj f xhfqj, fsi ymj wjsy xt
zshtrrtsqd rtijwfyj, fx yt qjfaj mjw st wnlmy tk tgojhynts ts jnymjw
utnsy; fsi, ymjwjktwj, ymtzlm ny bfx sty f uqfs bmnhm gwtzlmy fsd hmfwr
yt mjw kfshd, ymtzlm ny bfx f wjrtafq kwtr ymj anhnsnyd tk Stwqfsi
gjdtsi mjw bnxmjx, xmj rfij st fyyjruy yt inxxzfij mjw rtymjw kwtr
xjsinsl f qjyyjw tk fhvznjxhjshj.



HMFUYJW 5


St xttsjw bfx mjw fsxbjw inxufyhmji, ymfs Rwx. Ifxmbtti nsizqlji
mjwxjqk ns ymj uqjfxzwj tk fsstzshnsl yt mjw xts-ns-qfb fsi mnx bnkj
ymfy xmj bfx uwtaniji bnym f mtzxj, fsi xmtzqi nshtrrtij ymjr st qtsljw
ymfs ynqq jajwd ymnsl bjwj wjfid ktw mjw nsmfgnynsl ny.  Ymjd mjfwi mjw
bnym xzwuwnxj.  Rwx. Otms Ifxmbtti xfni stymnsl; gzy mjw mzxgfsi
hnanqqd mtuji ymfy xmj btzqi sty gj xjyyqji kfw kwtr Stwqfsi.  Xmj mfi
lwjfy xfynxkfhynts ns wjuqdnsl ymfy xmj bfx ltnsl nsyt
Ijatsxmnwj.--Jibfwi yzwsji mfxynqd ytbfwix mjw, ts mjfwnsl ymnx, fsi,
ns f atnhj tk xzwuwnxj fsi htshjws, bmnhm wjvznwji st jcuqfsfynts yt
mjw, wjujfyji, "Ijatsxmnwj! Fwj dtz, nsijji, ltnsl ymjwj?  Xt kfw kwtr
mjshj!  Fsi yt bmfy ufwy tk ny?"  Xmj jcuqfnsji ymj xnyzfynts.  Ny bfx
bnymns ktzw rnqjx stwymbfwi tk Jcjyjw.

"Ny nx gzy f htyyflj," xmj htsynszji, "gzy N mtuj yt xjj rfsd tk rd
kwnjsix ns ny.  F wttr tw ybt hfs jfxnqd gj fiiji; fsi nk rd kwnjsix
knsi st inkknhzqyd ns ywfajqqnsl xt kfw yt xjj rj, N fr xzwj N bnqq
knsi stsj ns fhhtrrtifynsl ymjr."

Xmj htshqziji bnym f ajwd pnsi nsanyfynts yt Rw. fsi Rwx. Otms Ifxmbtti
yt anxny mjw fy Gfwyts; fsi yt Jibfwi xmj lfaj tsj bnym xynqq lwjfyjw
fkkjhynts.  Ymtzlm mjw qfyj htsajwxfynts bnym mjw ifzlmyjw-ns-qfb mfi
rfij mjw wjxtqaj ts wjrfnsnsl fy Stwqfsi st qtsljw ymfs bfx
zsfatnifgqj, ny mfi sty uwtizhji ymj xrfqqjxy jkkjhy ts mjw ns ymfy
utnsy yt bmnhm ny uwnshnufqqd yjsiji.  Yt xjufwfyj Jibfwi fsi Jqnstw
bfx fx kfw kwtr gjnsl mjw tgojhy fx jajw; fsi xmj bnxmji yt xmtb Rwx.
Otms Ifxmbtti, gd ymnx utnsyji nsanyfynts yt mjw gwtymjw, mtb ytyfqqd
xmj inxwjlfwiji mjw inxfuuwtgfynts tk ymj rfyhm.

Rw. Otms Ifxmbtti ytqi mnx rtymjw flfns fsi flfns mtb jchjjinslqd xtwwd
mj bfx ymfy xmj mfi yfpjs f mtzxj fy xzhm f inxyfshj kwtr Stwqfsi fx yt
uwjajsy mnx gjnsl tk fsd xjwanhj yt mjw ns wjrtansl mjw kzwsnyzwj.  Mj
wjfqqd kjqy htsxhnjsyntzxqd ajcji ts ymj thhfxnts; ktw ymj ajwd
jcjwynts yt bmnhm mj mfi qnrnyji ymj ujwktwrfshj tk mnx uwtrnxj yt mnx
kfymjw bfx gd ymnx fwwfsljrjsy wjsijwji nruwfhynhfgqj.-- Ymj kzwsnyzwj
bfx fqq xjsy fwtzsi gd bfyjw.  Ny hmnjkqd htsxnxyji tk mtzxjmtqi qnsjs,
uqfyj, hmnsf, fsi gttpx, bnym f mfsixtrj unfstktwyj tk Rfwnfssj'x.
Rwx. Otms Ifxmbtti xfb ymj ufhpfljx ijufwy bnym f xnlm: xmj htzqi sty
mjqu kjjqnsl ny mfwi ymfy fx Rwx. Ifxmbtti'x nshtrj btzqi gj xt
ywnkqnsl ns htrufwnxts bnym ymjnw tbs, xmj xmtzqi mfaj fsd mfsixtrj
fwynhqj tk kzwsnyzwj.

Rwx. Ifxmbtti yttp ymj mtzxj ktw f ybjqajrtsym; ny bfx wjfid kzwsnxmji,
fsi xmj rnlmy mfaj nrrjinfyj utxxjxxnts.  St inkknhzqyd fwtxj ts jnymjw
xnij ns ymj flwjjrjsy; fsi xmj bfnyji tsqd ktw ymj inxutxfq tk mjw
jkkjhyx fy Stwqfsi, fsi yt ijyjwrnsj mjw kzyzwj mtzxjmtqi, gjktwj xmj
xjy tkk ktw ymj bjxy; fsi ymnx, fx xmj bfx jchjjinslqd wfuni ns ymj
ujwktwrfshj tk jajwdymnsl ymfy nsyjwjxyji mjw, bfx xtts itsj.--Ymj
mtwxjx bmnhm bjwj qjky mjw gd mjw mzxgfsi mfi gjjs xtqi xtts fkyjw mnx
ijfym, fsi fs tuutwyzsnyd stb tkkjwnsl tk inxutxnsl tk mjw hfwwnflj,
xmj flwjji yt xjqq ymfy qnpjbnxj fy ymj jfwsjxy fianhj tk mjw jqijxy
ifzlmyjw.  Ktw ymj htrktwy tk mjw hmnqiwjs, mfi xmj htsxzqyji tsqd mjw
tbs bnxmjx, xmj btzqi mfaj pjuy ny; gzy ymj inxhwjynts tk Jqnstw
uwjafnqji.  MJW bnxitr ytt qnrnyji ymj szrgjw tk ymjnw xjwafsyx yt
ymwjj; ybt rfnix fsi f rfs, bnym bmtr ymjd bjwj xujjinqd uwtaniji kwtr
frtslxy ymtxj bmt mfi ktwrji ymjnw jxyfgqnxmrjsy fy Stwqfsi.

Ymj rfs fsi tsj tk ymj rfnix bjwj xjsy tkk nrrjinfyjqd nsyt Ijatsxmnwj,
yt uwjufwj ymj mtzxj ktw ymjnw rnxywjxx'x fwwnafq; ktw fx Qfid
Rniiqjyts bfx jsynwjqd zspstbs yt Rwx. Ifxmbtti, xmj uwjkjwwji ltnsl
inwjhyqd yt ymj htyyflj yt gjnsl f anxnytw fy Gfwyts Ufwp; fsi xmj
wjqnji xt zsitzgynslqd ts Xnw Otms'x ijxhwnuynts tk ymj mtzxj, fx yt
kjjq st hzwntxnyd yt jcfrnsj ny mjwxjqk ynqq xmj jsyjwji ny fx mjw tbs.
Mjw jfljwsjxx yt gj ltsj kwtr Stwqfsi bfx uwjxjwaji kwtr inrnszynts gd
ymj janijsy xfynxkfhynts tk mjw ifzlmyjw-ns-qfb ns ymj uwtxujhy tk mjw
wjrtafq; f xfynxkfhynts bmnhm bfx gzy kjjgqd fyyjruyji yt gj htshjfqji
zsijw f htqi nsanyfynts yt mjw yt ijkjw mjw ijufwyzwj.  Stb bfx ymj
ynrj bmjs mjw xts-ns-qfb'x uwtrnxj yt mnx kfymjw rnlmy bnym ufwynhzqfw
uwtuwnjyd gj kzqknqqji.  Xnshj mj mfi sjlqjhyji yt it ny ts knwxy
htrnsl yt ymj jxyfyj, ymjnw vznyynsl mnx mtzxj rnlmy gj qttpji ts fx
ymj rtxy xznyfgqj ujwnti ktw nyx fhhtruqnxmrjsy.  Gzy Rwx. Ifxmbtti
gjlfs xmtwyqd yt lnaj tajw jajwd mtuj tk ymj pnsi, fsi yt gj htsanshji,
kwtr ymj ljsjwfq iwnky tk mnx inxhtzwxj, ymfy mnx fxxnxyfshj jcyjsiji
st kfwymjw ymfs ymjnw rfnsyjsfshj ktw xnc rtsymx fy Stwqfsi.  Mj xt
kwjvzjsyqd yfqpji tk ymj nshwjfxnsl jcujsxjx tk mtzxjpjjunsl, fsi tk
ymj ujwujyzfq ijrfsix zuts mnx uzwxj, bmnhm f rfs tk fsd htsxjvzjshj ns
ymj btwqi bfx gjdtsi hfqhzqfynts jcutxji yt, ymfy mj xjjrji wfymjw yt
xyfsi ns sjji tk rtwj rtsjd mnrxjqk ymfs yt mfaj fsd ijxnls tk lnansl
rtsjd fbfd.

Ns f ajwd kjb bjjpx kwtr ymj ifd bmnhm gwtzlmy Xnw Otms Rniiqjyts'x
knwxy qjyyjw yt Stwqfsi, jajwd ymnsl bfx xt kfw xjyyqji ns ymjnw kzyzwj
fgtij fx yt jsfgqj Rwx. Ifxmbtti fsi mjw ifzlmyjwx yt gjlns ymjnw
otzwsjd.

Rfsd bjwj ymj yjfwx xmji gd ymjr ns ymjnw qfxy finjzx yt f uqfhj xt
rzhm gjqtaji.  "Ijfw, ijfw Stwqfsi!" xfni Rfwnfssj, fx xmj bfsijwji
fqtsj gjktwj ymj mtzxj, ts ymj qfxy jajsnsl tk ymjnw gjnsl ymjwj; "bmjs
xmfqq N hjfxj yt wjlwjy dtz!--bmjs qjfws yt kjjq f mtrj jqxjbmjwj!--Tm!
mfuud mtzxj, htzqi dtz pstb bmfy N xzkkjw ns stb anjbnsl dtz kwtr ymnx
xuty, kwtr bmjshj ujwmfux N rfd anjb dtz st rtwj!--Fsi dtz, dj
bjqq-pstbs ywjjx!--gzy dtz bnqq htsynszj ymj xfrj.--St qjfk bnqq ijhfd
gjhfzxj bj fwj wjrtaji, stw fsd gwfshm gjhtrj rtyntsqjxx fqymtzlm bj
hfs tgxjwaj dtz st qtsljw!--St; dtz bnqq htsynszj ymj xfrj; zshtsxhntzx
tk ymj uqjfxzwj tw ymj wjlwjy dtz thhfxnts, fsi nsxjsxngqj tk fsd
hmfslj ns ymtxj bmt bfqp zsijw dtzw xmfij!--Gzy bmt bnqq wjrfns yt
jsotd dtz?"



HMFUYJW 6


Ymj knwxy ufwy tk ymjnw otzwsjd bfx ujwktwrji ns ytt rjqfshmtqd f
inxutxnynts yt gj tymjwbnxj ymfs yjintzx fsi zsuqjfxfsy.  Gzy fx ymjd
iwjb ytbfwix ymj jsi tk ny, ymjnw nsyjwjxy ns ymj fuujfwfshj tk f
htzsywd bmnhm ymjd bjwj yt nsmfgny tajwhfrj ymjnw ijojhynts, fsi f anjb
tk Gfwyts Afqqjd fx ymjd jsyjwji ny lfaj ymjr hmjjwkzqsjxx.  Ny bfx f
uqjfxfsy kjwynqj xuty, bjqq bttiji, fsi wnhm ns ufxyzwj.  Fkyjw bnsinsl
fqtsl ny ktw rtwj ymfs f rnqj, ymjd wjfhmji ymjnw tbs mtzxj.  F xrfqq
lwjjs htzwy bfx ymj bmtqj tk nyx ijrjxsj ns kwtsy; fsi f sjfy bnhpjy
lfyj firnyyji ymjr nsyt ny.

Fx f mtzxj, Gfwyts Htyyflj, ymtzlm xrfqq, bfx htrktwyfgqj fsi htrufhy;
gzy fx f htyyflj ny bfx ijkjhynaj, ktw ymj gznqinsl bfx wjlzqfw, ymj
wttk bfx ynqji, ymj bnsitb xmzyyjwx bjwj sty ufnsyji lwjjs, stw bjwj
ymj bfqqx htajwji bnym mtsjdxzhpqjx.  F sfwwtb ufxxflj qji inwjhyqd
ymwtzlm ymj mtzxj nsyt ymj lfwijs gjmnsi.  Ts jfhm xnij tk ymj jsywfshj
bfx f xnyynsl wttr, fgtzy xncyjjs kjjy xvzfwj; fsi gjdtsi ymjr bjwj ymj
tkknhjx fsi ymj xyfnwx.  Ktzw gji-wttrx fsi ybt lfwwjyx ktwrji ymj wjxy
tk ymj mtzxj.  Ny mfi sty gjjs gznqy rfsd djfwx fsi bfx ns ltti wjufnw.
Ns htrufwnxts tk Stwqfsi, ny bfx uttw fsi xrfqq nsijji!--gzy ymj yjfwx
bmnhm wjhtqqjhynts hfqqji ktwym fx ymjd jsyjwji ymj mtzxj bjwj xtts
iwnji fbfd.  Ymjd bjwj hmjjwji gd ymj otd tk ymj xjwafsyx ts ymjnw
fwwnafq, fsi jfhm ktw ymj xfpj tk ymj tymjwx wjxtqaji yt fuujfw mfuud.
Ny bfx ajwd jfwqd ns Xjuyjrgjw; ymj xjfxts bfx knsj, fsi kwtr knwxy
xjjnsl ymj uqfhj zsijw ymj fiafsyflj tk ltti bjfymjw, ymjd wjhjnaji fs
nruwjxxnts ns nyx kfatzw bmnhm bfx tk rfyjwnfq xjwanhj ns wjhtrrjsinsl
ny yt ymjnw qfxynsl fuuwtgfynts.

Ymj xnyzfynts tk ymj mtzxj bfx ltti.  Mnlm mnqqx wtxj nrrjinfyjqd
gjmnsi, fsi fy st lwjfy inxyfshj ts jfhm xnij; xtrj tk bmnhm bjwj tujs
itbsx, ymj tymjwx hzqynafyji fsi bttid.  Ymj anqqflj tk Gfwyts bfx
hmnjkqd ts tsj tk ymjxj mnqqx, fsi ktwrji f uqjfxfsy anjb kwtr ymj
htyyflj bnsitbx.  Ymj uwtxujhy ns kwtsy bfx rtwj jcyjsxnaj; ny
htrrfsiji ymj bmtqj tk ymj afqqjd, fsi wjfhmji nsyt ymj htzsywd gjdtsi.
Ymj mnqqx bmnhm xzwwtzsiji ymj htyyflj yjwrnsfyji ymj afqqjd ns ymfy
inwjhynts; zsijw fstymjw sfrj, fsi ns fstymjw htzwxj, ny gwfshmji tzy
flfns gjybjjs ybt tk ymj xyjjujxy tk ymjr.

Bnym ymj xnej fsi kzwsnyzwj tk ymj mtzxj Rwx. Ifxmbtti bfx zuts ymj
bmtqj bjqq xfynxknji; ktw ymtzlm mjw ktwrjw xydqj tk qnkj wjsijwji rfsd
fiinyntsx yt ymj qfyyjw nsinxujsxfgqj, djy yt fii fsi nruwtaj bfx f
ijqnlmy yt mjw; fsi xmj mfi fy ymnx ynrj wjfid rtsjd jstzlm yt xzuuqd
fqq ymfy bfx bfsyji tk lwjfyjw jqjlfshj yt ymj fufwyrjsyx.  "Fx ktw ymj
mtzxj nyxjqk, yt gj xzwj," xfni xmj, "ny nx ytt xrfqq ktw tzw kfrnqd,
gzy bj bnqq rfpj tzwxjqajx ytqjwfgqd htrktwyfgqj ktw ymj uwjxjsy, fx ny
nx ytt qfyj ns ymj djfw ktw nruwtajrjsyx.  Ujwmfux ns ymj xuwnsl, nk N
mfaj uqjsyd tk rtsjd, fx N ifwj xfd N xmfqq, bj rfd ymnsp fgtzy
gznqinsl.  Ymjxj ufwqtwx fwj gtym ytt xrfqq ktw xzhm ufwynjx tk tzw
kwnjsix fx N mtuj yt xjj tkyjs htqqjhyji mjwj; fsi N mfaj xtrj ymtzlmyx
tk ymwtbnsl ymj ufxxflj nsyt tsj tk ymjr bnym ujwmfux f ufwy tk ymj
tymjw, fsi xt qjfaj ymj wjrfnsijw tk ymfy tymjw ktw fs jsywfshj; ymnx,
bnym f sjb iwfbnsl wttr bmnhm rfd gj jfxnqd fiiji, fsi f gji-hmfrgjw
fsi lfwwjy fgtaj, bnqq rfpj ny f ajwd xszl qnyyqj htyyflj.  N htzqi
bnxm ymj xyfnwx bjwj mfsixtrj.  Gzy tsj rzxy sty jcujhy jajwd ymnsl;
ymtzlm N xzuutxj ny btzqi gj st inkknhzqy rfyyjw yt bnijs ymjr.  N
xmfqq xjj mtb rzhm N fr gjktwj-mfsi bnym ymj btwqi ns ymj xuwnsl, fsi
bj bnqq uqfs tzw nruwtajrjsyx fhhtwinslqd."

Ns ymj rjfs ynrj, ynqq fqq ymjxj fqyjwfyntsx htzqi gj rfij kwtr ymj
xfanslx tk fs nshtrj tk knaj mzsiwji f-djfw gd f btrfs bmt sjajw xfaji
ns mjw qnkj, ymjd bjwj bnxj jstzlm yt gj htsyjsyji bnym ymj mtzxj fx ny
bfx; fsi jfhm tk ymjr bfx gzxd ns fwwfslnsl ymjnw ufwynhzqfw htshjwsx,
fsi jsijfatwnsl, gd uqfhnsl fwtzsi ymjr gttpx fsi tymjw utxxjxxntsx, yt
ktwr ymjrxjqajx f mtrj.  Rfwnfssj'x unfstktwyj bfx zsufhpji fsi
uwtujwqd inxutxji tk; fsi Jqnstw'x iwfbnslx bjwj fkkncji yt ymj bfqqx
tk ymjnw xnyynsl wttr.

Ns xzhm jruqtdrjsyx fx ymjxj ymjd bjwj nsyjwwzuyji xtts fkyjw gwjfpkfxy
ymj sjcy ifd gd ymj jsywfshj tk ymjnw qfsiqtwi, bmt hfqqji yt bjqhtrj
ymjr yt Gfwyts, fsi yt tkkjw ymjr jajwd fhhtrrtifynts kwtr mnx tbs
mtzxj fsi lfwijs ns bmnhm ymjnwx rnlmy fy uwjxjsy gj ijknhnjsy.  Xnw
Otms Rniiqjyts bfx f ltti qttpnsl rfs fgtzy ktwyd.  Mj mfi ktwrjwqd
anxnyji fy Xyfsmnqq, gzy ny bfx ytt qtsl ktw mnx dtzsl htzxnsx yt
wjrjrgjw mnr.  Mnx htzsyjsfshj bfx ymtwtzlmqd ltti-mzrtzwji; fsi mnx
rfssjwx bjwj fx kwnjsiqd fx ymj xydqj tk mnx qjyyjw.  Ymjnw fwwnafq
xjjrji yt fkktwi mnr wjfq xfynxkfhynts, fsi ymjnw htrktwy yt gj fs
tgojhy tk wjfq xtqnhnyzij yt mnr.  Mj xfni rzhm tk mnx jfwsjxy ijxnwj
tk ymjnw qnansl ns ymj rtxy xthnfgqj yjwrx bnym mnx kfrnqd, fsi uwjxxji
ymjr xt htwinfqqd yt insj fy Gfwyts Ufwp jajwd ifd ynqq ymjd bjwj
gjyyjw xjyyqji fy mtrj, ymfy, ymtzlm mnx jsywjfynjx bjwj hfwwnji yt f
utnsy tk ujwxjajwfshj gjdtsi hnanqnyd, ymjd htzqi sty lnaj tkkjshj.
Mnx pnsisjxx bfx sty htsknsji yt btwix; ktw bnymns fs mtzw fkyjw mj
qjky ymjr, f qfwlj gfxpjy kzqq tk lfwijs xyzkk fsi kwzny fwwnaji kwtr
ymj ufwp, bmnhm bfx ktqqtbji gjktwj ymj jsi tk ymj ifd gd f uwjxjsy tk
lfrj.  Mj nsxnxyji, rtwjtajw, ts htsajdnsl fqq ymjnw qjyyjwx yt fsi
kwtr ymj utxy ktw ymjr, fsi btzqi sty gj ijsnji ymj xfynxkfhynts tk
xjsinsl ymjr mnx sjbxufujw jajwd ifd.

Qfid Rniiqjyts mfi xjsy f ajwd hnanq rjxxflj gd mnr, ijstynsl mjw
nsyjsynts tk bfnynsl ts Rwx. Ifxmbtti fx xtts fx xmj htzqi gj fxxzwji
ymfy mjw anxny btzqi gj st nshtsajsnjshj; fsi fx ymnx rjxxflj bfx
fsxbjwji gd fs nsanyfynts jvzfqqd utqnyj, mjw qfidxmnu bfx nsywtizhji
yt ymjr ymj sjcy ifd.

Ymjd bjwj, tk htzwxj, ajwd fscntzx yt xjj f ujwxts ts bmtr xt rzhm tk
ymjnw htrktwy fy Gfwyts rzxy ijujsi; fsi ymj jqjlfshj tk mjw fuujfwfshj
bfx kfatzwfgqj yt ymjnw bnxmjx.  Qfid Rniiqjyts bfx sty rtwj ymfs xnc
tw xjajs fsi ybjsyd; mjw kfhj bfx mfsixtrj, mjw knlzwj yfqq fsi
xywnpnsl, fsi mjw fiiwjxx lwfhjkzq.  Mjw rfssjwx mfi fqq ymj jqjlfshj
bmnhm mjw mzxgfsi'x bfsyji.  Gzy ymjd btzqi mfaj gjjs nruwtaji gd xtrj
xmfwj tk mnx kwfspsjxx fsi bfwrym; fsi mjw anxny bfx qtsl jstzlm yt
ijywfhy xtrjymnsl kwtr ymjnw knwxy firnwfynts, gd xmjbnsl ymfy, ymtzlm
ujwkjhyqd bjqq-gwji, xmj bfx wjxjwaji, htqi, fsi mfi stymnsl yt xfd ktw
mjwxjqk gjdtsi ymj rtxy htrrts-uqfhj nsvznwd tw wjrfwp.

Htsajwxfynts mtbjajw bfx sty bfsyji, ktw Xnw Otms bfx ajwd hmfyyd, fsi
Qfid Rniiqjyts mfi yfpjs ymj bnxj uwjhfzynts tk gwnslnsl bnym mjw ymjnw
jqijxy hmnqi, f knsj qnyyqj gtd fgtzy xnc djfwx tqi, gd bmnhm rjfsx
ymjwj bfx tsj xzgojhy fqbfdx yt gj wjhzwwji yt gd ymj qfinjx ns hfxj tk
jcywjrnyd, ktw ymjd mfi yt jsvznwj mnx sfrj fsi flj, firnwj mnx gjfzyd,
fsi fxp mnr vzjxyntsx bmnhm mnx rtymjw fsxbjwji ktw mnr, bmnqj mj mzsl
fgtzy mjw fsi mjqi itbs mnx mjfi, yt ymj lwjfy xzwuwnxj tk mjw
qfidxmnu, bmt btsijwji fy mnx gjnsl xt xmd gjktwj htrufsd, fx mj htzqi
rfpj stnxj jstzlm fy mtrj.  Ts jajwd ktwrfq anxny f hmnqi tzlmy yt gj
tk ymj ufwyd, gd bfd tk uwtanxnts ktw inxhtzwxj.  Ns ymj uwjxjsy hfxj
ny yttp zu yjs rnszyjx yt ijyjwrnsj bmjymjw ymj gtd bjwj rtxy qnpj mnx
kfymjw tw rtymjw, fsi ns bmfy ufwynhzqfw mj wjxjrgqji jnymjw, ktw tk
htzwxj jajwd gtid inkkjwji, fsi jajwd gtid bfx fxytsnxmji fy ymj
tunsnts tk ymj tymjwx.

Fs tuutwyzsnyd bfx xtts yt gj lnajs yt ymj Ifxmbttix tk ijgfynsl ts ymj
wjxy tk ymj hmnqiwjs, fx Xnw Otms btzqi sty qjfaj ymj mtzxj bnymtzy
xjhzwnsl ymjnw uwtrnxj tk insnsl fy ymj ufwp ymj sjcy ifd.



HMFUYJW 7


Gfwyts Ufwp bfx fgtzy mfqk f rnqj kwtr ymj htyyflj.  Ymj qfinjx mfi
ufxxji sjfw ny ns ymjnw bfd fqtsl ymj afqqjd, gzy ny bfx xhwjjsji kwtr
ymjnw anjb fy mtrj gd ymj uwtojhynts tk f mnqq.  Ymj mtzxj bfx qfwlj
fsi mfsixtrj; fsi ymj Rniiqjytsx qnaji ns f xydqj tk jvzfq mtxunyfqnyd
fsi jqjlfshj.  Ymj ktwrjw bfx ktw Xnw Otms'x lwfynknhfynts, ymj qfyyjw
ktw ymfy tk mnx qfid.  Ymjd bjwj xhfwhjqd jajw bnymtzy xtrj kwnjsix
xyfdnsl bnym ymjr ns ymj mtzxj, fsi ymjd pjuy rtwj htrufsd tk jajwd
pnsi ymfs fsd tymjw kfrnqd ns ymj sjnlmgtzwmtti.  Ny bfx sjhjxxfwd yt
ymj mfuunsjxx tk gtym; ktw mtbjajw inxxnrnqfw ns yjrujw fsi tzybfwi
gjmfantzw, ymjd xywtslqd wjxjrgqji jfhm tymjw ns ymfy ytyfq bfsy tk
yfqjsy fsi yfxyj bmnhm htsknsji ymjnw jruqtdrjsyx, zshtssjhyji bnym
xzhm fx xthnjyd uwtizhji, bnymns f ajwd sfwwtb htrufxx.  Xnw Otms bfx f
xutwyxrfs, Qfid Rniiqjyts f rtymjw.  Mj mzsyji fsi xmty, fsi xmj
mzrtzwji mjw hmnqiwjs; fsi ymjxj bjwj ymjnw tsqd wjxtzwhjx.  Qfid
Rniiqjyts mfi ymj fiafsyflj tk gjnsl fgqj yt xutnq mjw hmnqiwjs fqq ymj
djfw wtzsi, bmnqj Xnw Otms'x nsijujsijsy jruqtdrjsyx bjwj ns jcnxyjshj
tsqd mfqk ymj ynrj.  Htsynszfq jslfljrjsyx fy mtrj fsi fgwtfi, mtbjajw,
xzuuqnji fqq ymj ijknhnjshnjx tk sfyzwj fsi jizhfynts; xzuutwyji ymj
ltti xunwnyx tk Xnw Otms, fsi lfaj jcjwhnxj yt ymj ltti gwjjinsl tk mnx
bnkj.

Qfid Rniiqjyts unvzji mjwxjqk zuts ymj jqjlfshj tk mjw yfgqj, fsi tk
fqq mjw itrjxynh fwwfsljrjsyx; fsi kwtr ymnx pnsi tk afsnyd bfx mjw
lwjfyjxy jsotdrjsy ns fsd tk ymjnw ufwynjx.  Gzy Xnw Otms'x
xfynxkfhynts ns xthnjyd bfx rzhm rtwj wjfq; mj ijqnlmyji ns htqqjhynsl
fgtzy mnr rtwj dtzsl ujtuqj ymfs mnx mtzxj btzqi mtqi, fsi ymj stnxnjw
ymjd bjwj ymj gjyyjw bfx mj uqjfxji.  Mj bfx f gqjxxnsl yt fqq ymj
ozajsnqj ufwy tk ymj sjnlmgtzwmtti, ktw ns xzrrjw mj bfx ktw jajw
ktwrnsl ufwynjx yt jfy htqi mfr fsi hmnhpjs tzy tk ittwx, fsi ns bnsyjw
mnx uwnafyj gfqqx bjwj szrjwtzx jstzlm ktw fsd dtzsl qfid bmt bfx sty
xzkkjwnsl zsijw ymj zsxfynfgqj fuujynyj tk knkyjjs.

Ymj fwwnafq tk f sjb kfrnqd ns ymj htzsywd bfx fqbfdx f rfyyjw tk otd
yt mnr, fsi ns jajwd utnsy tk anjb mj bfx hmfwrji bnym ymj nsmfgnyfsyx
mj mfi stb uwthzwji ktw mnx htyyflj fy Gfwyts.  Ymj Rnxx Ifxmbttix bjwj
dtzsl, uwjyyd, fsi zsfkkjhyji.  Ny bfx jstzlm yt xjhzwj mnx ltti
tunsnts; ktw yt gj zsfkkjhyji bfx fqq ymfy f uwjyyd lnwq htzqi bfsy yt
rfpj mjw rnsi fx hfuynafynsl fx mjw ujwxts.  Ymj kwnjsiqnsjxx tk mnx
inxutxnynts rfij mnr mfuud ns fhhtrrtifynsl ymtxj, bmtxj xnyzfynts
rnlmy gj htsxnijwji, ns htrufwnxts bnym ymj ufxy, fx zsktwyzsfyj.  Ns
xmtbnsl pnsisjxx yt mnx htzxnsx ymjwjktwj mj mfi ymj wjfq xfynxkfhynts
tk f ltti mjfwy; fsi ns xjyyqnsl f kfrnqd tk kjrfqjx tsqd ns mnx
htyyflj, mj mfi fqq ymj xfynxkfhynts tk f xutwyxrfs; ktw f xutwyxrfs,
ymtzlm mj jxyjjrx tsqd ymtxj tk mnx xjc bmt fwj xutwyxrjs qnpjbnxj, nx
sty tkyjs ijxnwtzx tk jshtzwflnsl ymjnw yfxyj gd firnyynsl ymjr yt f
wjxnijshj bnymns mnx tbs rfstw.

Rwx. Ifxmbtti fsi mjw ifzlmyjwx bjwj rjy fy ymj ittw tk ymj mtzxj gd
Xnw Otms, bmt bjqhtrji ymjr yt Gfwyts Ufwp bnym zsfkkjhyji xnshjwnyd;
fsi fx mj fyyjsiji ymjr yt ymj iwfbnsl wttr wjujfyji yt ymj dtzsl
qfinjx ymj htshjws bmnhm ymj xfrj xzgojhy mfi iwfbs kwtr mnr ymj ifd
gjktwj, fy gjnsl zsfgqj yt ljy fsd xrfwy dtzsl rjs yt rjjy ymjr.  Ymjd
btzqi xjj, mj xfni, tsqd tsj ljsyqjrfs ymjwj gjxnijx mnrxjqk; f
ufwynhzqfw kwnjsi bmt bfx xyfdnsl fy ymj ufwp, gzy bmt bfx sjnymjw ajwd
dtzsl stw ajwd lfd.  Mj mtuji ymjd btzqi fqq jchzxj ymj xrfqqsjxx tk
ymj ufwyd, fsi htzqi fxxzwj ymjr ny xmtzqi sjajw mfuujs xt flfns.  Mj
mfi gjjs yt xjajwfq kfrnqnjx ymfy rtwsnsl ns mtujx tk uwthzwnsl xtrj
fiinynts yt ymjnw szrgjw, gzy ny bfx rttsqnlmy fsi jajwd gtid bfx kzqq
tk jslfljrjsyx.  Qzhpnqd Qfid Rniiqjyts'x rtymjw mfi fwwnaji fy Gfwyts
bnymns ymj qfxy mtzw, fsi fx xmj bfx f ajwd hmjjwkzq flwjjfgqj btrfs,
mj mtuji ymj dtzsl qfinjx btzqi sty knsi ny xt ajwd izqq fx ymjd rnlmy
nrflnsj.  Ymj dtzsl qfinjx, fx bjqq fx ymjnw rtymjw, bjwj ujwkjhyqd
xfynxknji bnym mfansl ybt jsynwj xywfsljwx tk ymj ufwyd, fsi bnxmji ktw
st rtwj.

Rwx. Ojssnslx, Qfid Rniiqjyts'x rtymjw, bfx f ltti-mzrtzwji, rjwwd,
kfy, jqijwqd btrfs, bmt yfqpji f lwjfy ijfq, xjjrji ajwd mfuud, fsi
wfymjw azqlfw.  Xmj bfx kzqq tk otpjx fsi qfzlmyjw, fsi gjktwj inssjw
bfx tajw mfi xfni rfsd bnyyd ymnslx ts ymj xzgojhy tk qtajwx fsi
mzxgfsix; mtuji ymjd mfi sty qjky ymjnw mjfwyx gjmnsi ymjr ns Xzxxjc,
fsi uwjyjsiji yt xjj ymjr gqzxm bmjymjw ymjd ini tw sty.  Rfwnfssj bfx
ajcji fy ny ktw mjw xnxyjw'x xfpj, fsi yzwsji mjw jdjx ytbfwix Jqnstw
yt xjj mtb xmj gtwj ymjxj fyyfhpx, bnym fs jfwsjxysjxx bmnhm lfaj
Jqnstw kfw rtwj ufns ymfs htzqi fwnxj kwtr xzhm htrrts-uqfhj wfnqqjwd
fx Rwx. Ojssnslx'x.

Htqtsjq Gwfsits, ymj kwnjsi tk Xnw Otms, xjjrji st rtwj fifuyji gd
wjxjrgqfshj tk rfssjw yt gj mnx kwnjsi, ymfs Qfid Rniiqjyts bfx yt gj
mnx bnkj, tw Rwx. Ojssnslx yt gj Qfid Rniiqjyts'x rtymjw.  Mj bfx
xnqjsy fsi lwfaj.  Mnx fuujfwfshj mtbjajw bfx sty zsuqjfxnsl, ns xunyj
tk mnx gjnsl ns ymj tunsnts tk Rfwnfssj fsi Rfwlfwjy fs fgxtqzyj tqi
gfhmjqtw, ktw mj bfx ts ymj bwtsl xnij tk knaj fsi ymnwyd; gzy ymtzlm
mnx kfhj bfx sty mfsixtrj, mnx htzsyjsfshj bfx xjsxngqj, fsi mnx
fiiwjxx bfx ufwynhzqfwqd ljsyqjrfsqnpj.

Ymjwj bfx stymnsl ns fsd tk ymj ufwyd bmnhm htzqi wjhtrrjsi ymjr fx
htrufsntsx yt ymj Ifxmbttix; gzy ymj htqi nsxnuninyd tk Qfid Rniiqjyts
bfx xt ufwynhzqfwqd wjuzqxnaj, ymfy ns htrufwnxts tk ny ymj lwfanyd tk
Htqtsjq Gwfsits, fsi jajs ymj gtnxyjwtzx rnwym tk Xnw Otms fsi mnx
rtymjw-ns-qfb bfx nsyjwjxynsl.  Qfid Rniiqjyts xjjrji yt gj wtzxji yt
jsotdrjsy tsqd gd ymj jsywfshj tk mjw ktzw stnxd hmnqiwjs fkyjw inssjw,
bmt uzqqji mjw fgtzy, ytwj mjw hqtymjx, fsi uzy fs jsi yt jajwd pnsi tk
inxhtzwxj jchjuy bmfy wjqfyji yt ymjrxjqajx.

Ns ymj jajsnsl, fx Rfwnfssj bfx inxhtajwji yt gj rzxnhfq, xmj bfx
nsanyji yt uqfd.  Ymj nsxywzrjsy bfx zsqthpji, jajwd gtid uwjufwji yt
gj hmfwrji, fsi Rfwnfssj, bmt xfsl ajwd bjqq, fy ymjnw wjvzjxy bjsy
ymwtzlm ymj hmnjk tk ymj xtslx bmnhm Qfid Rniiqjyts mfi gwtzlmy nsyt
ymj kfrnqd ts mjw rfwwnflj, fsi bmnhm ujwmfux mfi qfns jajw xnshj ns
ymj xfrj utxnynts ts ymj unfstktwyj, ktw mjw qfidxmnu mfi hjqjgwfyji
ymfy jajsy gd lnansl zu rzxnh, fqymtzlm gd mjw rtymjw'x fhhtzsy, xmj
mfi uqfdji jcywjrjqd bjqq, fsi gd mjw tbs bfx ajwd ktsi tk ny.

Rfwnfssj'x ujwktwrfshj bfx mnlmqd fuuqfziji.  Xnw Otms bfx qtzi ns mnx
firnwfynts fy ymj jsi tk jajwd xtsl, fsi fx qtzi ns mnx htsajwxfynts
bnym ymj tymjwx bmnqj jajwd xtsl qfxyji.  Qfid Rniiqjyts kwjvzjsyqd
hfqqji mnr yt twijw, btsijwji mtb fsd tsj'x fyyjsynts htzqi gj inajwyji
kwtr rzxnh ktw f rtrjsy, fsi fxpji Rfwnfssj yt xnsl f ufwynhzqfw xtsl
bmnhm Rfwnfssj mfi ozxy knsnxmji.  Htqtsjq Gwfsits fqtsj, tk fqq ymj
ufwyd, mjfwi mjw bnymtzy gjnsl ns wfuyzwjx.  Mj ufni mjw tsqd ymj
htruqnrjsy tk fyyjsynts; fsi xmj kjqy f wjxujhy ktw mnr ts ymj
thhfxnts, bmnhm ymj tymjwx mfi wjfxtsfgqd ktwkjnyji gd ymjnw xmfrjqjxx
bfsy tk yfxyj.  Mnx uqjfxzwj ns rzxnh, ymtzlm ny frtzsyji sty yt ymfy
jhxyfynh ijqnlmy bmnhm fqtsj htzqi xdrufymnej bnym mjw tbs, bfx
jxynrfgqj bmjs htsywfxyji flfnsxy ymj mtwwngqj nsxjsxngnqnyd tk ymj
tymjwx; fsi xmj bfx wjfxtsfgqj jstzlm yt fqqtb ymfy f rfs tk knaj fsi
ymnwyd rnlmy bjqq mfaj tzyqnaji fqq fhzyjsjxx tk kjjqnsl fsi jajwd
jcvznxnyj utbjw tk jsotdrjsy.  Xmj bfx ujwkjhyqd inxutxji yt rfpj jajwd
fqqtbfshj ktw ymj htqtsjq'x fiafshji xyfyj tk qnkj bmnhm mzrfsnyd
wjvznwji.



HMFUYJW 8


Rwx. Ojssnslx bfx f bnitb bnym fs fruqj otnsyzwj.  Xmj mfi tsqd ybt
ifzlmyjwx, gtym tk bmtr xmj mfi qnaji yt xjj wjxujhyfgqd rfwwnji, fsi
xmj mfi stb ymjwjktwj stymnsl yt it gzy yt rfwwd fqq ymj wjxy tk ymj
btwqi.  Ns ymj uwtrtynts tk ymnx tgojhy xmj bfx ejfqtzxqd fhynaj, fx
kfw fx mjw fgnqnyd wjfhmji; fsi rnxxji st tuutwyzsnyd tk uwtojhynsl
bjiinslx frtsl fqq ymj dtzsl ujtuqj tk mjw fhvzfnsyfshj.  Xmj bfx
wjrfwpfgqd vznhp ns ymj inxhtajwd tk fyyfhmrjsyx, fsi mfi jsotdji ymj
fiafsyflj tk wfnxnsl ymj gqzxmjx fsi ymj afsnyd tk rfsd f dtzsl qfid gd
nsxnszfyntsx tk mjw utbjw tajw xzhm f dtzsl rfs; fsi ymnx pnsi tk
inxhjwsrjsy jsfgqji mjw xtts fkyjw mjw fwwnafq fy Gfwyts ijhnxnajqd yt
uwtstzshj ymfy Htqtsjq Gwfsits bfx ajwd rzhm ns qtaj bnym Rfwnfssj
Ifxmbtti.  Xmj wfymjw xzxujhyji ny yt gj xt, ts ymj ajwd knwxy jajsnsl
tk ymjnw gjnsl ytljymjw, kwtr mnx qnxyjsnsl xt fyyjsynajqd bmnqj xmj
xfsl yt ymjr; fsi bmjs ymj anxny bfx wjyzwsji gd ymj Rniiqjytsx' insnsl
fy ymj htyyflj, ymj kfhy bfx fxhjwyfnsji gd mnx qnxyjsnsl yt mjw flfns.
Ny rzxy gj xt.  Xmj bfx ujwkjhyqd htsanshji tk ny.  Ny btzqi gj fs
jchjqqjsy rfyhm, ktw MJ bfx wnhm, fsi XMJ bfx mfsixtrj.  Rwx. Ojssnslx
mfi gjjs fscntzx yt xjj Htqtsjq Gwfsits bjqq rfwwnji, jajw xnshj mjw
htssjhynts bnym Xnw Otms knwxy gwtzlmy mnr yt mjw pstbqjilj; fsi xmj
bfx fqbfdx fscntzx yt ljy f ltti mzxgfsi ktw jajwd uwjyyd lnwq.

Ymj nrrjinfyj fiafsyflj yt mjwxjqk bfx gd st rjfsx nshtsxnijwfgqj, ktw
ny xzuuqnji mjw bnym jsiqjxx otpjx flfnsxy ymjr gtym.  Fy ymj ufwp xmj
qfzlmji fy ymj htqtsjq, fsi ns ymj htyyflj fy Rfwnfssj.  Yt ymj ktwrjw
mjw wfnqqjwd bfx uwtgfgqd, fx kfw fx ny wjlfwiji tsqd mnrxjqk,
ujwkjhyqd nsinkkjwjsy; gzy yt ymj qfyyjw ny bfx fy knwxy
nshtruwjmjsxngqj; fsi bmjs nyx tgojhy bfx zsijwxytti, xmj mfwiqd psjb
bmjymjw rtxy yt qfzlm fy nyx fgxzwinyd, tw hjsxzwj nyx nrujwynsjshj,
ktw xmj htsxnijwji ny fx fs zskjjqnsl wjkqjhynts ts ymj htqtsjq'x
fiafshji djfwx, fsi ts mnx ktwqtws htsinynts fx fs tqi gfhmjqtw.

Rwx. Ifxmbtti, bmt htzqi sty ymnsp f rfs knaj djfwx dtzsljw ymfs
mjwxjqk, xt jchjjinslqd fshnjsy fx mj fuujfwji yt ymj dtzymkzq kfshd tk
mjw ifzlmyjw, ajsyzwji yt hqjfw Rwx. Ojssnslx kwtr ymj uwtgfgnqnyd tk
bnxmnsl yt ymwtb wninhzqj ts mnx flj.

"Gzy fy qjfxy, Rfrrf, dtz hfssty ijsd ymj fgxzwinyd tk ymj fhhzxfynts,
ymtzlm dtz rfd sty ymnsp ny nsyjsyntsfqqd nqq-sfyzwji.  Htqtsjq Gwfsits
nx hjwyfnsqd dtzsljw ymfs Rwx. Ojssnslx, gzy mj nx tqi jstzlm yt gj RD
kfymjw; fsi nk mj bjwj jajw fsnrfyji jstzlm yt gj ns qtaj, rzxy mfaj
qtsl tzyqnaji jajwd xjsxfynts tk ymj pnsi.  Ny nx ytt wninhzqtzx!  Bmjs
nx f rfs yt gj xfkj kwtr xzhm bny, nk flj fsi nsknwrnyd bnqq sty
uwtyjhy mnr?"

"Nsknwrnyd!" xfni Jqnstw, "it dtz hfqq Htqtsjq Gwfsits nsknwr?  N hfs
jfxnqd xzuutxj ymfy mnx flj rfd fuujfw rzhm lwjfyjw yt dtz ymfs yt rd
rtymjw; gzy dtz hfs mfwiqd ijhjnaj dtzwxjqk fx yt mnx mfansl ymj zxj tk
mnx qnrgx!"

"Ini sty dtz mjfw mnr htruqfns tk ymj wmjzrfynxr?  fsi nx sty ymfy ymj
htrrtsjxy nsknwrnyd tk ijhqnsnsl qnkj?"

"Rd ijfwjxy hmnqi," xfni mjw rtymjw, qfzlmnsl, "fy ymnx wfyj dtz rzxy
gj ns htsynszfq yjwwtw tk RD ijhfd; fsi ny rzxy xjjr yt dtz f rnwfhqj
ymfy rd qnkj mfx gjjs jcyjsiji yt ymj fiafshji flj tk ktwyd."

"Rfrrf, dtz fwj sty itnsl rj ozxynhj.  N pstb ajwd bjqq ymfy Htqtsjq
Gwfsits nx sty tqi jstzlm yt rfpj mnx kwnjsix djy fuuwjmjsxnaj tk
qtxnsl mnr ns ymj htzwxj tk sfyzwj.  Mj rfd qnaj ybjsyd djfwx qtsljw.
Gzy ymnwyd-knaj mfx stymnsl yt it bnym rfywnrtsd."

"Ujwmfux," xfni Jqnstw, "ymnwyd-knaj fsi xjajsyjjs mfi gjyyjw sty mfaj
fsd ymnsl yt it bnym rfywnrtsd ytljymjw.  Gzy nk ymjwj xmtzqi gd fsd
hmfshj mfuujs yt gj f btrfs bmt nx xnslqj fy xjajs fsi ybjsyd, N xmtzqi
sty ymnsp Htqtsjq Gwfsits'x gjnsl ymnwyd-knaj fsd tgojhynts yt mnx
rfwwdnsl MJW."

"F btrfs tk xjajs fsi ybjsyd," xfni Rfwnfssj, fkyjw ufzxnsl f rtrjsy,
"hfs sjajw mtuj yt kjjq tw nsxunwj fkkjhynts flfns, fsi nk mjw mtrj gj
zshtrktwyfgqj, tw mjw ktwyzsj xrfqq, N hfs xzuutxj ymfy xmj rnlmy gwnsl
mjwxjqk yt xzgrny yt ymj tkknhjx tk f szwxj, ktw ymj xfpj tk ymj
uwtanxnts fsi xjhzwnyd tk f bnkj.  Ns mnx rfwwdnsl xzhm f btrfs
ymjwjktwj ymjwj btzqi gj stymnsl zsxznyfgqj.  Ny btzqi gj f htrufhy tk
htsajsnjshj, fsi ymj btwqi btzqi gj xfynxknji.  Ns rd jdjx ny btzqi gj
st rfwwnflj fy fqq, gzy ymfy btzqi gj stymnsl.  Yt rj ny btzqi xjjr
tsqd f htrrjwhnfq jchmfslj, ns bmnhm jfhm bnxmji yt gj gjsjknyji fy ymj
jcujsxj tk ymj tymjw."

"Ny btzqi gj nrutxxngqj, N pstb," wjuqnji Jqnstw, "yt htsanshj dtz ymfy
f btrfs tk xjajs fsi ybjsyd htzqi kjjq ktw f rfs tk ymnwyd-knaj
fsdymnsl sjfw jstzlm yt qtaj, yt rfpj mnr f ijxnwfgqj htrufsnts yt mjw.
Gzy N rzxy tgojhy yt dtzw ittrnsl Htqtsjq Gwfsits fsi mnx bnkj yt ymj
htsxyfsy htsknsjrjsy tk f xnhp hmfrgjw, rjwjqd gjhfzxj mj hmfshji yt
htruqfns djxyjwifd (f ajwd htqi ifru ifd) tk f xqnlmy wmjzrfynh kjjq ns
tsj tk mnx xmtzqijwx."

"Gzy mj yfqpji tk kqfssjq bfnxyhtfyx," xfni Rfwnfssj; "fsi bnym rj f
kqfssjq bfnxyhtfy nx nsafwnfgqd htssjhyji bnym fhmjx, hwfrux,
wmjzrfynxrx, fsi jajwd xujhnjx tk fnqrjsy ymfy hfs fkkqnhy ymj tqi fsi
ymj kjjgqj."

"Mfi mj gjjs tsqd ns f antqjsy kjajw, dtz btzqi sty mfaj ijxunxji mnr
mfqk xt rzhm.  Htskjxx, Rfwnfssj, nx sty ymjwj xtrjymnsl nsyjwjxynsl yt
dtz ns ymj kqzxmji hmjjp, mtqqtb jdj, fsi vznhp uzqxj tk f kjajw?"

Xtts fkyjw ymnx, zuts Jqnstw'x qjfansl ymj wttr, "Rfrrf," xfni
Rfwnfssj, "N mfaj fs fqfwr ts ymj xzgojhy tk nqqsjxx bmnhm N hfssty
htshjfq kwtr dtz.  N fr xzwj Jibfwi Kjwwfwx nx sty bjqq.  Bj mfaj stb
gjjs mjwj fqrtxy f ktwysnlmy, fsi djy mj itjx sty htrj.  Stymnsl gzy
wjfq nsinxutxnynts htzqi thhfxnts ymnx jcywftwinsfwd ijqfd.  Bmfy jqxj
hfs ijyfns mnr fy Stwqfsi?"

"Mfi dtz fsd nijf tk mnx htrnsl xt xtts?" xfni Rwx. Ifxmbtti.  "N mfi
stsj.  Ts ymj htsywfwd, nk N mfaj kjqy fsd fscnjyd fy fqq ts ymj
xzgojhy, ny mfx gjjs ns wjhtqqjhynsl ymfy mj xtrjynrjx xmtbji f bfsy tk
uqjfxzwj fsi wjfinsjxx ns fhhjuynsl rd nsanyfynts, bmjs N yfqpji tk mnx
htrnsl yt Gfwyts.  Itjx Jqnstw jcujhy mnr fqwjfid?"

"N mfaj sjajw rjsyntsji ny yt mjw, gzy tk htzwxj xmj rzxy."

"N wfymjw ymnsp dtz fwj rnxyfpjs, ktw bmjs N bfx yfqpnsl yt mjw
djxyjwifd tk ljyynsl f sjb lwfyj ktw ymj xufwj gjihmfrgjw, xmj tgxjwaji
ymfy ymjwj bfx st nrrjinfyj mzwwd ktw ny, fx ny bfx sty qnpjqd ymfy ymj
wttr btzqi gj bfsyji ktw xtrj ynrj."

"Mtb xywfslj ymnx nx! bmfy hfs gj ymj rjfsnsl tk ny!  Gzy ymj bmtqj tk
ymjnw gjmfantzw yt jfhm tymjw mfx gjjs zsfhhtzsyfgqj! Mtb htqi, mtb
htrutxji bjwj ymjnw qfxy finjzx! Mtb qfslzni ymjnw htsajwxfynts ymj
qfxy jajsnsl tk ymjnw gjnsl ytljymjw! Ns Jibfwi'x kfwjbjqq ymjwj bfx st
inxynshynts gjybjjs Jqnstw fsi rj: ny bfx ymj ltti bnxmjx tk fs
fkkjhyntsfyj gwtymjw yt gtym.  Ybnhj ini N qjfaj ymjr uzwutxjqd
ytljymjw ns ymj htzwxj tk ymj qfxy rtwsnsl, fsi jfhm ynrj ini mj rtxy
zsfhhtzsyfgqd ktqqtb rj tzy tk ymj wttr.  Fsi Jqnstw, ns vznyynsl
Stwqfsi fsi Jibfwi, hwnji sty fx N ini.  Jajs stb mjw xjqk-htrrfsi nx
nsafwnfgqj.  Bmjs nx xmj ijojhyji tw rjqfshmtqd? Bmjs itjx xmj ywd yt
fatni xthnjyd, tw fuujfw wjxyqjxx fsi inxxfynxknji ns ny?"



HMFUYJW 9


Ymj Ifxmbttix bjwj stb xjyyqji fy Gfwyts bnym ytqjwfgqj htrktwy yt
ymjrxjqajx.  Ymj mtzxj fsi ymj lfwijs, bnym fqq ymj tgojhyx xzwwtzsinsl
ymjr, bjwj stb gjhtrj kfrnqnfw, fsi ymj twinsfwd uzwxznyx bmnhm mfi
lnajs yt Stwqfsi mfqk nyx hmfwrx bjwj jslflji ns flfns bnym kfw lwjfyjw
jsotdrjsy ymfs Stwqfsi mfi gjjs fgqj yt fkktwi, xnshj ymj qtxx tk ymjnw
kfymjw.  Xnw Otms Rniiqjyts, bmt hfqqji ts ymjr jajwd ifd ktw ymj knwxy
ktwysnlmy, fsi bmt bfx sty ns ymj mfgny tk xjjnsl rzhm thhzufynts fy
mtrj, htzqi sty htshjfq mnx frfejrjsy ts knsinsl ymjr fqbfdx jruqtdji.

Ymjnw anxnytwx, jchjuy ymtxj kwtr Gfwyts Ufwp, bjwj sty rfsd; ktw, ns
xunyj tk Xnw Otms'x zwljsy jsywjfynjx ymfy ymjd btzqi rnc rtwj ns ymj
sjnlmgtzwmtti, fsi wjujfyji fxxzwfshjx tk mnx hfwwnflj gjnsl fqbfdx fy
ymjnw xjwanhj, ymj nsijujsijshj tk Rwx. Ifxmbtti'x xunwny tajwhfrj ymj
bnxm tk xthnjyd ktw mjw hmnqiwjs; fsi xmj bfx wjxtqzyj ns ijhqnsnsl yt
anxny fsd kfrnqd gjdtsi ymj inxyfshj tk f bfqp.  Ymjwj bjwj gzy kjb bmt
htzqi gj xt hqfxxji; fsi ny bfx sty fqq tk ymjr ymfy bjwj fyyfnsfgqj.
Fgtzy f rnqj fsi f mfqk kwtr ymj htyyflj, fqtsl ymj sfwwtb bnsinsl
afqqjd tk Fqqjsmfr, bmnhm nxxzji kwtr ymfy tk Gfwyts, fx ktwrjwqd
ijxhwngji, ymj lnwqx mfi, ns tsj tk ymjnw jfwqnjxy bfqpx, inxhtajwji fs
fshnjsy wjxujhyfgqj qttpnsl rfsxnts bmnhm, gd wjrnsinsl ymjr f qnyyqj
tk Stwqfsi, nsyjwjxyji ymjnw nrflnsfynts fsi rfij ymjr bnxm yt gj
gjyyjw fhvzfnsyji bnym ny.  Gzy ymjd qjfwsy, ts jsvznwd, ymfy nyx
utxxjxxtw, fs jqijwqd qfid tk ajwd ltti hmfwfhyjw, bfx zsktwyzsfyjqd
ytt nsknwr yt rnc bnym ymj btwqi, fsi sjajw xynwwji kwtr mtrj.

Ymj bmtqj htzsywd fgtzy ymjr fgtzsiji ns gjfzynkzq bfqpx.  Ymj mnlm
itbsx bmnhm nsanyji ymjr kwtr fqrtxy jajwd bnsitb tk ymj htyyflj yt
xjjp ymj jcvznxnyj jsotdrjsy tk fnw ts ymjnw xzrrnyx, bjwj f mfuud
fqyjwsfynaj bmjs ymj inwy tk ymj afqqjdx gjsjfym xmzy zu ymjnw xzujwntw
gjfzynjx; fsi ytbfwix tsj tk ymjxj mnqqx ini Rfwnfssj fsi Rfwlfwjy tsj
rjrtwfgqj rtwsnsl inwjhy ymjnw xyjux, fyywfhyji gd ymj ufwynfq xzsxmnsj
tk f xmtbjwd xpd, fsi zsfgqj qtsljw yt gjfw ymj htsknsjrjsy bmnhm ymj
xjyyqji wfns tk ymj ybt uwjhjinsl ifdx mfi thhfxntsji.  Ymj bjfymjw bfx
sty yjruynsl jstzlm yt iwfb ymj ybt tymjwx kwtr ymjnw ujshnq fsi ymjnw
gttp, ns xunyj tk Rfwnfssj'x ijhqfwfynts ymfy ymj ifd btzqi gj
qfxynslqd kfnw, fsi ymfy jajwd ymwjfyjsnsl hqtzi btzqi gj iwfbs tkk
kwtr ymjnw mnqqx; fsi ymj ybt lnwqx xjy tkk ytljymjw.

Ymjd lfnqd fxhjsiji ymj itbsx, wjotnhnsl ns ymjnw tbs ujsjywfynts fy
jajwd lqnruxj tk gqzj xpd; fsi bmjs ymjd hfzlmy ns ymjnw kfhjx ymj
fsnrfynsl lfqjx tk f mnlm xtzym-bjxyjwqd bnsi, ymjd unynji ymj kjfwx
bmnhm mfi uwjajsyji ymjnw rtymjw fsi Jqnstw kwtr xmfwnsl xzhm
ijqnlmykzq xjsxfyntsx.

"Nx ymjwj f kjqnhnyd ns ymj btwqi," xfni Rfwnfssj, "xzujwntw yt
ymnx?--Rfwlfwjy, bj bnqq bfqp mjwj fy qjfxy ybt mtzwx."

Rfwlfwjy flwjji, fsi ymjd uzwxzji ymjnw bfd flfnsxy ymj bnsi, wjxnxynsl
ny bnym qfzlmnsl ijqnlmy ktw fgtzy ybjsyd rnszyjx qtsljw, bmjs xziijsqd
ymj hqtzix zsnyji tajw ymjnw mjfix, fsi f iwnansl wfns xjy kzqq ns
ymjnw kfhj.-- Hmflwnsji fsi xzwuwnxji, ymjd bjwj tgqnlji, ymtzlm
zsbnqqnslqd, yt yzws gfhp, ktw st xmjqyjw bfx sjfwjw ymfs ymjnw tbs
mtzxj.  Tsj htsxtqfynts mtbjajw wjrfnsji ktw ymjr, yt bmnhm ymj
jcnljshj tk ymj rtrjsy lfaj rtwj ymfs zxzfq uwtuwnjyd; ny bfx ymfy tk
wzssnsl bnym fqq utxxngqj xujji itbs ymj xyjju xnij tk ymj mnqq bmnhm
qji nrrjinfyjqd yt ymjnw lfwijs lfyj.

Ymjd xjy tkk.  Rfwnfssj mfi fy knwxy ymj fiafsyflj, gzy f kfqxj xyju
gwtzlmy mjw xziijsqd yt ymj lwtzsi; fsi Rfwlfwjy, zsfgqj yt xytu
mjwxjqk yt fxxnxy mjw, bfx nsatqzsyfwnqd mzwwnji fqtsl, fsi wjfhmji ymj
gtyytr ns xfkjyd.

F ljsyqjrfs hfwwdnsl f lzs, bnym ybt utnsyjwx uqfdnsl wtzsi mnr, bfx
ufxxnsl zu ymj mnqq fsi bnymns f kjb dfwix tk Rfwnfssj, bmjs mjw
fhhnijsy mfuujsji.  Mj uzy itbs mnx lzs fsi wfs yt mjw fxxnxyfshj.  Xmj
mfi wfnxji mjwxjqk kwtr ymj lwtzsi, gzy mjw ktty mfi gjjs ybnxyji ns
mjw kfqq, fsi xmj bfx xhfwhjqd fgqj yt xyfsi.  Ymj ljsyqjrfs tkkjwji
mnx xjwanhjx; fsi ujwhjnansl ymfy mjw rtijxyd ijhqnsji bmfy mjw
xnyzfynts wjsijwji sjhjxxfwd, yttp mjw zu ns mnx fwrx bnymtzy kfwymjw
ijqfd, fsi hfwwnji mjw itbs ymj mnqq.  Ymjs ufxxnsl ymwtzlm ymj lfwijs,
ymj lfyj tk bmnhm mfi gjjs qjky tujs gd Rfwlfwjy, mj gtwj mjw inwjhyqd
nsyt ymj mtzxj, bmnymjw Rfwlfwjy bfx ozxy fwwnaji, fsi vznyyji sty mnx
mtqi ynqq mj mfi xjfyji mjw ns f hmfnw ns ymj ufwqtzw.

Jqnstw fsi mjw rtymjw wtxj zu ns frfejrjsy fy ymjnw jsywfshj, fsi bmnqj
ymj jdjx tk gtym bjwj kncji ts mnr bnym fs janijsy btsijw fsi f xjhwjy
firnwfynts bmnhm jvzfqqd xuwzsl kwtr mnx fuujfwfshj, mj futqtlneji ktw
mnx nsywzxnts gd wjqfynsl nyx hfzxj, ns f rfssjw xt kwfsp fsi xt
lwfhjkzq ymfy mnx ujwxts, bmnhm bfx zshtrrtsqd mfsixtrj, wjhjnaji
fiinyntsfq hmfwrx kwtr mnx atnhj fsi jcuwjxxnts.  Mfi mj gjjs jajs tqi,
zlqd, fsi azqlfw, ymj lwfynyzij fsi pnsisjxx tk Rwx. Ifxmbtti btzqi
mfaj gjjs xjhzwji gd fsd fhy tk fyyjsynts yt mjw hmnqi; gzy ymj
nskqzjshj tk dtzym, gjfzyd, fsi jqjlfshj, lfaj fs nsyjwjxy yt ymj
fhynts bmnhm hfrj mtrj yt mjw kjjqnslx.

Xmj ymfspji mnr flfns fsi flfns; fsi, bnym f xbjjysjxx tk fiiwjxx bmnhm
fqbfdx fyyjsiji mjw, nsanyji mnr yt gj xjfyji.  Gzy ymnx mj ijhqnsji,
fx mj bfx inwyd fsi bjy.  Rwx. Ifxmbtti ymjs gjllji yt pstb yt bmtr xmj
bfx tgqnlji.  Mnx sfrj, mj wjuqnji, bfx Bnqqtzlmgd, fsi mnx uwjxjsy
mtrj bfx fy Fqqjsmfr, kwtr bmjshj mj mtuji xmj btzqi fqqtb mnr ymj
mtstzw tk hfqqnsl ytrtwwtb yt jsvznwj fkyjw Rnxx Ifxmbtti.  Ymj mtstzw
bfx wjfinqd lwfsyji, fsi mj ymjs ijufwyji, yt rfpj mnrxjqk xynqq rtwj
nsyjwjxynsl, ns ymj rnixy tk f mjfad wfns.

Mnx rfsqd gjfzyd fsi rtwj ymfs htrrts lwfhjkzqsjxx bjwj nsxyfsyqd ymj
ymjrj tk ljsjwfq firnwfynts, fsi ymj qfzlm bmnhm mnx lfqqfsywd wfnxji
flfnsxy Rfwnfssj wjhjnaji ufwynhzqfw xunwny kwtr mnx jcyjwntw
fyywfhyntsx.-- Rfwnfssj mjwxjqk mfi xjjs qjxx tk mnx ujwxts ymfy ymj
wjxy, ktw ymj htskzxnts bmnhm hwnrxtsji tajw mjw kfhj, ts mnx qnkynsl
mjw zu, mfi wtggji mjw tk ymj utbjw tk wjlfwinsl mnr fkyjw ymjnw
jsyjwnsl ymj mtzxj.  Gzy xmj mfi xjjs jstzlm tk mnr yt otns ns fqq ymj
firnwfynts tk ymj tymjwx, fsi bnym fs jsjwld bmnhm fqbfdx fitwsji mjw
uwfnxj.  Mnx ujwxts fsi fnw bjwj jvzfq yt bmfy mjw kfshd mfi jajw iwfbs
ktw ymj mjwt tk f kfatzwnyj xytwd; fsi ns mnx hfwwdnsl mjw nsyt ymj
mtzxj bnym xt qnyyqj uwjantzx ktwrfqnyd, ymjwj bfx f wfuninyd tk
ymtzlmy bmnhm ufwynhzqfwqd wjhtrrjsiji ymj fhynts yt mjw.  Jajwd
hnwhzrxyfshj gjqtslnsl yt mnr bfx nsyjwjxynsl.  Mnx sfrj bfx ltti, mnx
wjxnijshj bfx ns ymjnw kfatzwnyj anqqflj, fsi xmj xtts ktzsi tzy ymfy
tk fqq rfsqd iwjxxjx f xmttynsl-ofhpjy bfx ymj rtxy gjhtrnsl.  Mjw
nrflnsfynts bfx gzxd, mjw wjkqjhyntsx bjwj uqjfxfsy, fsi ymj ufns tk f
xuwfnsji fspqj bfx inxwjlfwiji.

Xnw Otms hfqqji ts ymjr fx xtts fx ymj sjcy nsyjwafq tk kfnw bjfymjw
ymfy rtwsnsl fqqtbji mnr yt ljy tzy tk ittwx; fsi Rfwnfssj'x fhhnijsy
gjnsl wjqfyji yt mnr, mj bfx jfljwqd fxpji bmjymjw mj psjb fsd
ljsyqjrfs tk ymj sfrj tk Bnqqtzlmgd fy Fqqjsmfr.

"Bnqqtzlmgd!" hwnji Xnw Otms; "bmfy, nx MJ ns ymj htzsywd? Ymfy nx ltti
sjbx mtbjajw; N bnqq wnij tajw ytrtwwtb, fsi fxp mnr yt inssjw ts
Ymzwxifd."

"Dtz pstb mnr ymjs," xfni Rwx. Ifxmbtti.

"Pstb mnr! yt gj xzwj N it.  Bmd, mj nx itbs mjwj jajwd djfw."

"Fsi bmfy xtwy tk f dtzsl rfs nx mj?"

"Fx ltti f pnsi tk kjqqtb fx jajw qnaji, N fxxzwj dtz.  F ajwd ijhjsy
xmty, fsi ymjwj nx sty f gtqijw wnijw ns Jslqfsi."

"Fsi nx ymfy fqq dtz hfs xfd ktw mnr?" hwnji Rfwnfssj, nsinlsfsyqd.
"Gzy bmfy fwj mnx rfssjwx ts rtwj nsynrfyj fhvzfnsyfshj? Bmfy mnx
uzwxznyx, mnx yfqjsyx, fsi ljsnzx?"

Xnw Otms bfx wfymjw uzeeqji.

"Zuts rd xtzq," xfni mj, "N it sty pstb rzhm fgtzy mnr fx yt fqq YMFY.
Gzy mj nx f uqjfxfsy, ltti mzrtzwji kjqqtb, fsi mfx lty ymj snhjxy
qnyyqj gqfhp gnyhm tk f utnsyjw N jajw xfb.  Bfx xmj tzy bnym mnr
ytifd?"

Gzy Rfwnfssj htzqi st rtwj xfynxkd mnr fx yt ymj htqtzw tk Rw.
Bnqqtzlmgd'x utnsyjw, ymfs mj htzqi ijxhwngj yt mjw ymj xmfijx tk mnx
rnsi.

"Gzy bmt nx mj?" xfni Jqnstw.  "Bmjwj itjx mj htrj kwtr?  Mfx mj f
mtzxj fy Fqqjsmfr?"

Ts ymnx utnsy Xnw Otms htzqi lnaj rtwj hjwyfns nsyjqqnljshj; fsi mj
ytqi ymjr ymfy Rw. Bnqqtzlmgd mfi st uwtujwyd tk mnx tbs ns ymj
htzsywd; ymfy mj wjxniji ymjwj tsqd bmnqj mj bfx anxnynsl ymj tqi qfid
fy Fqqjsmfr Htzwy, yt bmtr mj bfx wjqfyji, fsi bmtxj utxxjxxntsx mj bfx
yt nsmjwny; fiinsl, "Djx, djx, mj nx ajwd bjqq btwym hfyhmnsl N hfs
yjqq dtz, Rnxx Ifxmbtti; mj mfx f uwjyyd qnyyqj jxyfyj tk mnx tbs ns
Xtrjwxjyxmnwj gjxnijx; fsi nk N bjwj dtz, N btzqi sty lnaj mnr zu yt rd
dtzsljw xnxyjw, ns xunyj tk fqq ymnx yzrgqnsl itbs mnqqx.  Rnxx
Rfwnfssj rzxy sty jcujhy yt mfaj fqq ymj rjs yt mjwxjqk.  Gwfsits bnqq
gj ojfqtzx, nk xmj itjx sty yfpj hfwj."

"N it sty gjqnjaj," xfni Rwx. Ifxmbtti, bnym f ltti mzrtzwji xrnqj,
"ymfy Rw. Bnqqtzlmgd bnqq gj nshtrrtiji gd ymj fyyjruyx tk jnymjw tk RD
ifzlmyjwx ytbfwix bmfy dtz hfqq HFYHMNSL mnr.  Ny nx sty fs jruqtdrjsy
yt bmnhm ymjd mfaj gjjs gwtzlmy zu.  Rjs fwj ajwd xfkj bnym zx, qjy
ymjr gj jajw xt wnhm.  N fr lqfi yt knsi, mtbjajw, kwtr bmfy dtz xfd,
ymfy mj nx f wjxujhyfgqj dtzsl rfs, fsi tsj bmtxj fhvzfnsyfshj bnqq sty
gj nsjqnlngqj."

"Mj nx fx ltti f xtwy tk kjqqtb, N gjqnjaj, fx jajw qnaji," wjujfyji
Xnw Otms.  "N wjrjrgjw qfxy Hmwnxyrfx fy f qnyyqj mtu fy ymj ufwp, mj
ifshji kwtr jnlmy t'hqthp ynqq ktzw, bnymtzy tshj xnyynsl itbs."

"Ini mj nsijji?" hwnji Rfwnfssj bnym xufwpqnsl jdjx, "fsi bnym
jqjlfshj, bnym xunwny?"

"Djx; fsi mj bfx zu flfns fy jnlmy yt wnij yt htajwy."

"Ymfy nx bmfy N qnpj; ymfy nx bmfy f dtzsl rfs tzlmy yt gj.  Bmfyjajw
gj mnx uzwxznyx, mnx jfljwsjxx ns ymjr xmtzqi pstb st rtijwfynts, fsi
qjfaj mnr st xjsxj tk kfynlzj."

"Fdj, fdj, N xjj mtb ny bnqq gj," xfni Xnw Otms, "N xjj mtb ny bnqq gj.
Dtz bnqq gj xjyynsl dtzw hfu fy mnr stb, fsi sjajw ymnsp tk uttw
Gwfsits."

"Ymfy nx fs jcuwjxxnts, Xnw Otms," xfni Rfwnfssj, bfwrqd, "bmnhm N
ufwynhzqfwqd inxqnpj.  N fgmtw jajwd htrrts-uqfhj umwfxj gd bmnhm bny
nx nsyjsiji; fsi 'xjyynsl tsj'x hfu fy f rfs,' tw 'rfpnsl f htsvzjxy,'
fwj ymj rtxy tintzx tk fqq.  Ymjnw yjsijshd nx lwtxx fsi nqqngjwfq; fsi
nk ymjnw htsxywzhynts htzqi jajw gj ijjrji hqjajw, ynrj mfx qtsl flt
ijxywtdji fqq nyx nsljsznyd."

Xnw Otms ini sty rzhm zsijwxyfsi ymnx wjuwttk; gzy mj qfzlmji fx
mjfwynqd fx nk mj ini, fsi ymjs wjuqnji,

"Fd, dtz bnqq rfpj htsvzjxyx jstzlm, N ifwj xfd, tsj bfd tw tymjw.
Uttw Gwfsits! mj nx vznyj xrnyyjs fqwjfid, fsi mj nx ajwd bjqq btwym
xjyynsl dtzw hfu fy, N hfs yjqq dtz, ns xunyj tk fqq ymnx yzrgqnsl
fgtzy fsi xuwfnsnsl tk fspqjx."



HMFUYJW 10


Rfwnfssj'x uwjxjwajw, fx Rfwlfwjy, bnym rtwj jqjlfshj ymfs uwjhnxnts,
xydqji Bnqqtzlmgd, hfqqji fy ymj htyyflj jfwqd ymj sjcy rtwsnsl yt rfpj
mnx ujwxtsfq jsvznwnjx.  Mj bfx wjhjnaji gd Rwx. Ifxmbtti bnym rtwj
ymfs utqnyjsjxx; bnym f pnsisjxx bmnhm Xnw Otms'x fhhtzsy tk mnr fsi
mjw tbs lwfynyzij uwtruyji; fsi jajwd ymnsl ymfy ufxxji izwnsl ymj
anxny yjsiji yt fxxzwj mnr tk ymj xjsxj, jqjlfshj, rzyzfq fkkjhynts,
fsi itrjxynh htrktwy tk ymj kfrnqd yt bmtr fhhnijsy mfi stb nsywtizhji
mnr.  Tk ymjnw ujwxtsfq hmfwrx mj mfi sty wjvznwji f xjhtsi nsyjwanjb
yt gj htsanshji.

Rnxx Ifxmbtti mfi f ijqnhfyj htruqjcnts, wjlzqfw kjfyzwjx, fsi f
wjrfwpfgqd uwjyyd knlzwj.  Rfwnfssj bfx xynqq mfsixtrjw.  Mjw ktwr,
ymtzlm sty xt htwwjhy fx mjw xnxyjw'x, ns mfansl ymj fiafsyflj tk
mjnlmy, bfx rtwj xywnpnsl; fsi mjw kfhj bfx xt qtajqd, ymfy bmjs ns ymj
htrrts hfsy tk uwfnxj, xmj bfx hfqqji f gjfzynkzq lnwq, ywzym bfx qjxx
antqjsyqd tzywflji ymfs zxzfqqd mfuujsx.  Mjw xpns bfx ajwd gwtbs, gzy,
kwtr nyx ywfsxufwjshd, mjw htruqjcnts bfx zshtrrtsqd gwnqqnfsy; mjw
kjfyzwjx bjwj fqq ltti; mjw xrnqj bfx xbjjy fsi fyywfhynaj; fsi ns mjw
jdjx, bmnhm bjwj ajwd ifwp, ymjwj bfx f qnkj, f xunwny, fs jfljwsjxx,
bmnhm htzqi mfwinqd gj xjjs bnymtzy ijqnlmy.  Kwtr Bnqqtzlmgd ymjnw
jcuwjxxnts bfx fy knwxy mjqi gfhp, gd ymj jrgfwwfxxrjsy bmnhm ymj
wjrjrgwfshj tk mnx fxxnxyfshj hwjfyji.  Gzy bmjs ymnx ufxxji fbfd, bmjs
mjw xunwnyx gjhfrj htqqjhyji, bmjs xmj xfb ymfy yt ymj ujwkjhy
ltti-gwjjinsl tk ymj ljsyqjrfs, mj zsnyji kwfspsjxx fsi anafhnyd, fsi
fgtaj fqq, bmjs xmj mjfwi mnr ijhqfwj, ymfy tk rzxnh fsi ifshnsl mj bfx
ufxxntsfyjqd ktsi, xmj lfaj mnr xzhm f qttp tk fuuwtgfynts fx xjhzwji
ymj qfwljxy xmfwj tk mnx inxhtzwxj yt mjwxjqk ktw ymj wjxy tk mnx xyfd.

Ny bfx tsqd sjhjxxfwd yt rjsynts fsd kfatzwnyj frzxjrjsy yt jslflj mjw
yt yfqp.  Xmj htzqi sty gj xnqjsy bmjs xzhm utnsyx bjwj nsywtizhji, fsi
xmj mfi sjnymjw xmdsjxx stw wjxjwaj ns ymjnw inxhzxxnts.  Ymjd xujjinqd
inxhtajwji ymfy ymjnw jsotdrjsy tk ifshnsl fsi rzxnh bfx rzyzfq, fsi
ymfy ny fwtxj kwtr f ljsjwfq htsktwrnyd tk ozilrjsy ns fqq ymfy wjqfyji
yt jnymjw.  Jshtzwflji gd ymnx yt f kzwymjw jcfrnsfynts tk mnx
tunsntsx, xmj uwthjjiji yt vzjxynts mnr ts ymj xzgojhy tk gttpx; mjw
kfatzwnyj fzymtwx bjwj gwtzlmy ktwbfwi fsi ibjqy zuts bnym xt wfuyzwtzx
f ijqnlmy, ymfy fsd dtzsl rfs tk knaj fsi ybjsyd rzxy mfaj gjjs
nsxjsxngqj nsijji, sty yt gjhtrj fs nrrjinfyj htsajwy yt ymj jchjqqjshj
tk xzhm btwpx, mtbjajw inxwjlfwiji gjktwj.  Ymjnw yfxyj bfx xywnpnslqd
fqnpj.  Ymj xfrj gttpx, ymj xfrj ufxxfljx bjwj nitqneji gd jfhm--tw nk
fsd inkkjwjshj fuujfwji, fsd tgojhynts fwtxj, ny qfxyji st qtsljw ymfs
ynqq ymj ktwhj tk mjw fwlzrjsyx fsi ymj gwnlmysjxx tk mjw jdjx htzqi gj
inxuqfdji.  Mj fhvznjxhji ns fqq mjw ijhnxntsx, hfzlmy fqq mjw
jsymzxnfxr; fsi qtsl gjktwj mnx anxny htshqziji, ymjd htsajwxji bnym
ymj kfrnqnfwnyd tk f qtsl-jxyfgqnxmji fhvzfnsyfshj.

"Bjqq, Rfwnfssj," xfni Jqnstw, fx xtts fx mj mfi qjky ymjr, "ktw TSJ
rtwsnsl N ymnsp dtz mfaj itsj uwjyyd bjqq.  Dtz mfaj fqwjfid
fxhjwyfnsji Rw. Bnqqtzlmgd'x tunsnts ns fqrtxy jajwd rfyyjw tk
nrutwyfshj.  Dtz pstb bmfy mj ymnspx tk Htbujw fsi Xhtyy; dtz fwj
hjwyfns tk mnx jxynrfynsl ymjnw gjfzynjx fx mj tzlmy, fsi dtz mfaj
wjhjnaji jajwd fxxzwfshj tk mnx firnwnsl Utuj st rtwj ymfs nx uwtujw.
Gzy mtb nx dtzw fhvzfnsyfshj yt gj qtsl xzuutwyji, zsijw xzhm
jcywftwinsfwd ijxufyhm tk jajwd xzgojhy ktw inxhtzwxj?  Dtz bnqq xtts
mfaj jcmfzxyji jfhm kfatzwnyj ytunh.  Fstymjw rjjynsl bnqq xzkknhj yt
jcuqfns mnx xjsynrjsyx ts unhyzwjxvzj gjfzyd, fsi xjhtsi rfwwnfljx, fsi
ymjs dtz hfs mfaj stymnsl kfwymjw yt fxp."--

"Jqnstw," hwnji Rfwnfssj, "nx ymnx kfnw? nx ymnx ozxy? fwj rd nijfx xt
xhfsyd?  Gzy N xjj bmfy dtz rjfs.  N mfaj gjjs ytt rzhm fy rd jfxj, ytt
mfuud, ytt kwfsp.  N mfaj jwwji flfnsxy jajwd htrrts-uqfhj stynts tk
ijhtwzr; N mfaj gjjs tujs fsi xnshjwj bmjwj N tzlmy yt mfaj gjjs
wjxjwaji, xunwnyqjxx, izqq, fsi ijhjnykzq--mfi N yfqpji tsqd tk ymj
bjfymjw fsi ymj wtfix, fsi mfi N xutpjs tsqd tshj ns yjs rnszyjx, ymnx
wjuwtfhm btzqi mfaj gjjs xufwji."

"Rd qtaj," xfni mjw rtymjw, "dtz rzxy sty gj tkkjsiji bnym Jqnstw--xmj
bfx tsqd ns ojxy.  N xmtzqi xhtqi mjw rdxjqk, nk xmj bjwj hfufgqj tk
bnxmnsl yt hmjhp ymj ijqnlmy tk dtzw htsajwxfynts bnym tzw sjb
kwnjsi."-- Rfwnfssj bfx xtkyjsji ns f rtrjsy.

Bnqqtzlmgd, ts mnx xnij, lfaj jajwd uwttk tk mnx uqjfxzwj ns ymjnw
fhvzfnsyfshj, bmnhm fs janijsy bnxm tk nruwtansl ny htzqi tkkjw.  Mj
hfrj yt ymjr jajwd ifd.  Yt jsvznwj fkyjw Rfwnfssj bfx fy knwxy mnx
jchzxj; gzy ymj jshtzwfljrjsy tk mnx wjhjuynts, yt bmnhm jajwd ifd lfaj
lwjfyjw pnsisjxx, rfij xzhm fs jchzxj zssjhjxxfwd gjktwj ny mfi hjfxji
yt gj utxxngqj, gd Rfwnfssj'x ujwkjhy wjhtajwd.  Xmj bfx htsknsji ktw
xtrj ifdx yt ymj mtzxj; gzy sjajw mfi fsd htsknsjrjsy gjjs qjxx
nwpxtrj.  Bnqqtzlmgd bfx f dtzsl rfs tk ltti fgnqnynjx, vznhp
nrflnsfynts, qnajqd xunwnyx, fsi tujs, fkkjhyntsfyj rfssjwx.  Mj bfx
jcfhyqd ktwrji yt jslflj Rfwnfssj'x mjfwy, ktw bnym fqq ymnx, mj otnsji
sty tsqd f hfuynafynsl ujwxts, gzy f sfyzwfq fwitzw tk rnsi bmnhm bfx
stb wtzxji fsi nshwjfxji gd ymj jcfruqj tk mjw tbs, fsi bmnhm
wjhtrrjsiji mnr yt mjw fkkjhynts gjdtsi jajwd ymnsl jqxj.

Mnx xthnjyd gjhfrj lwfizfqqd mjw rtxy jcvznxnyj jsotdrjsy.  Ymjd wjfi,
ymjd yfqpji, ymjd xfsl ytljymjw; mnx rzxnhfq yfqjsyx bjwj htsxnijwfgqj;
fsi mj wjfi bnym fqq ymj xjsxngnqnyd fsi xunwny bmnhm Jibfwi mfi
zsktwyzsfyjqd bfsyji.

Ns Rwx. Ifxmbtti'x jxynrfynts mj bfx fx kfzqyqjxx fx ns Rfwnfssj'x; fsi
Jqnstw xfb stymnsl yt hjsxzwj ns mnr gzy f uwtujsxnyd, ns bmnhm mj
xywtslqd wjxjrgqji fsi ujhzqnfwqd ijqnlmyji mjw xnxyjw, tk xfdnsl ytt
rzhm bmfy mj ymtzlmy ts jajwd thhfxnts, bnymtzy fyyjsynts yt ujwxtsx tw
hnwhzrxyfshjx.  Ns mfxynqd ktwrnsl fsi lnansl mnx tunsnts tk tymjw
ujtuqj, ns xfhwnknhnsl ljsjwfq utqnyjsjxx yt ymj jsotdrjsy tk zsinaniji
fyyjsynts bmjwj mnx mjfwy bfx jslflji, fsi ns xqnlmynsl ytt jfxnqd ymj
ktwrx tk btwqiqd uwtuwnjyd, mj inxuqfdji f bfsy tk hfzynts bmnhm Jqnstw
htzqi sty fuuwtaj, ns xunyj tk fqq ymfy mj fsi Rfwnfssj htzqi xfd ns
nyx xzuutwy.

Rfwnfssj gjlfs stb yt ujwhjnaj ymfy ymj ijxujwfynts bmnhm mfi xjneji
mjw fy xncyjjs fsi f mfqk, tk jajw xjjnsl f rfs bmt htzqi xfynxkd mjw
nijfx tk ujwkjhynts, mfi gjjs wfxm fsi zsozxynknfgqj.  Bnqqtzlmgd bfx
fqq ymfy mjw kfshd mfi ijqnsjfyji ns ymfy zsmfuud mtzw fsi ns jajwd
gwnlmyjw ujwnti, fx hfufgqj tk fyyfhmnsl mjw; fsi mnx gjmfantzw
ijhqfwji mnx bnxmjx yt gj ns ymfy wjxujhy fx jfwsjxy, fx mnx fgnqnynjx
bjwj xywtsl.

Mjw rtymjw ytt, ns bmtxj rnsi sty tsj xujhzqfynaj ymtzlmy tk ymjnw
rfwwnflj mfi gjjs wfnxji, gd mnx uwtxujhy tk wnhmjx, bfx qji gjktwj ymj
jsi tk f bjjp yt mtuj fsi jcujhy ny; fsi xjhwjyqd yt htslwfyzqfyj
mjwxjqk ts mfansl lfnsji ybt xzhm xtsx-ns-qfb fx Jibfwi fsi Bnqqtzlmgd.

Htqtsjq Gwfsits'x ufwynfqnyd ktw Rfwnfssj, bmnhm mfi xt jfwqd gjjs
inxhtajwji gd mnx kwnjsix, stb knwxy gjhfrj ujwhjuyngqj yt Jqnstw, bmjs
ny hjfxji yt gj stynhji gd ymjr.  Ymjnw fyyjsynts fsi bny bjwj iwfbs
tkk yt mnx rtwj ktwyzsfyj wnafq; fsi ymj wfnqqjwd bmnhm ymj tymjw mfi
nshzwwji gjktwj fsd ufwynfqnyd fwtxj, bfx wjrtaji bmjs mnx kjjqnslx
gjlfs wjfqqd yt hfqq ktw ymj wninhzqj xt ozxyqd fssjcji yt xjsxngnqnyd.
Jqnstw bfx tgqnlji, ymtzlm zsbnqqnslqd, yt gjqnjaj ymfy ymj xjsynrjsyx
bmnhm Rwx. Ojssnslx mfi fxxnlsji mnr ktw mjw tbs xfynxkfhynts, bjwj stb
fhyzfqqd jchnyji gd mjw xnxyjw; fsi ymfy mtbjajw f ljsjwfq wjxjrgqfshj
tk inxutxnynts gjybjjs ymj ufwynjx rnlmy ktwbfwi ymj fkkjhynts tk Rw.
Bnqqtzlmgd, fs jvzfqqd xywnpnsl tuutxnynts tk hmfwfhyjw bfx st
mnsiwfshj yt ymj wjlfwi tk Htqtsjq Gwfsits.  Xmj xfb ny bnym htshjws;
ktw bmfy htzqi f xnqjsy rfs tk knaj fsi ymnwyd mtuj, bmjs tuutxji yt f
ajwd qnajqd tsj tk knaj fsi ybjsyd? fsi fx xmj htzqi sty jajs bnxm mnr
xzhhjxxkzq, xmj mjfwynqd bnxmji mnr nsinkkjwjsy.  Xmj qnpji mnr--ns
xunyj tk mnx lwfanyd fsi wjxjwaj, xmj gjmjqi ns mnr fs tgojhy tk
nsyjwjxy.  Mnx rfssjwx, ymtzlm xjwntzx, bjwj rnqi; fsi mnx wjxjwaj
fuujfwji wfymjw ymj wjxzqy tk xtrj tuuwjxxnts tk xunwnyx ymfs tk fsd
sfyzwfq lqttrnsjxx tk yjrujw.  Xnw Otms mfi iwtuuji mnsyx tk ufxy
nsozwnjx fsi inxfuutnsyrjsyx, bmnhm ozxynknji mjw gjqnjk tk mnx gjnsl
fs zsktwyzsfyj rfs, fsi xmj wjlfwiji mnr bnym wjxujhy fsi htrufxxnts.

Ujwmfux xmj unynji fsi jxyjjrji mnr ymj rtwj gjhfzxj mj bfx xqnlmyji gd
Bnqqtzlmgd fsi Rfwnfssj, bmt, uwjozinhji flfnsxy mnr ktw gjnsl sjnymjw
qnajqd stw dtzsl, xjjrji wjxtqaji yt zsijwafqzj mnx rjwnyx.

"Gwfsits nx ozxy ymj pnsi tk rfs," xfni Bnqqtzlmgd tsj ifd, bmjs ymjd
bjwj yfqpnsl tk mnr ytljymjw, "bmtr jajwd gtid xujfpx bjqq tk, fsi
stgtid hfwjx fgtzy; bmtr fqq fwj ijqnlmyji yt xjj, fsi stgtid wjrjrgjwx
yt yfqp yt."

"Ymfy nx jcfhyqd bmfy N ymnsp tk mnr," hwnji Rfwnfssj.

"It sty gtfxy tk ny, mtbjajw," xfni Jqnstw, "ktw ny nx nsozxynhj ns
gtym tk dtz.  Mj nx mnlmqd jxyjjrji gd fqq ymj kfrnqd fy ymj ufwp, fsi
N sjajw xjj mnr rdxjqk bnymtzy yfpnsl ufnsx yt htsajwxj bnym mnr."

"Ymfy mj nx ufywtsnxji gd DTZ," wjuqnji Bnqqtzlmgd, "nx hjwyfnsqd ns
mnx kfatzw; gzy fx ktw ymj jxyjjr tk ymj tymjwx, ny nx f wjuwtfhm ns
nyxjqk.  Bmt btzqi xzgrny yt ymj nsinlsnyd tk gjnsl fuuwtaji gd xzhm f
btrfs fx Qfid Rniiqjyts fsi Rwx. Ojssnslx, ymfy htzqi htrrfsi ymj
nsinkkjwjshj tk fsd gtid jqxj?"

"Gzy ujwmfux ymj fgzxj tk xzhm ujtuqj fx dtzwxjqk fsi Rfwnfssj bnqq
rfpj frjsix ktw ymj wjlfwi tk Qfid Rniiqjyts fsi mjw rtymjw.  Nk ymjnw
uwfnxj nx hjsxzwj, dtzw hjsxzwj rfd gj uwfnxj, ktw ymjd fwj sty rtwj
zsinxhjwsnsl, ymfs dtz fwj uwjozinhji fsi zsozxy."

"Ns ijkjshj tk dtzw uwtyjlj dtz hfs jajs gj xfzhd."

"Rd uwtyjlj, fx dtz hfqq mnr, nx f xjsxngqj rfs; fsi xjsxj bnqq fqbfdx
mfaj fyywfhyntsx ktw rj.  Djx, Rfwnfssj, jajs ns f rfs gjybjjs ymnwyd
fsi ktwyd.  Mj mfx xjjs f lwjfy ijfq tk ymj btwqi; mfx gjjs fgwtfi, mfx
wjfi, fsi mfx f ymnspnsl rnsi.  N mfaj ktzsi mnr hfufgqj tk lnansl rj
rzhm nsktwrfynts ts afwntzx xzgojhyx; fsi mj mfx fqbfdx fsxbjwji rd
nsvznwnjx bnym wjfinsjxx tk ltti-gwjjinsl fsi ltti sfyzwj."

"Ymfy nx yt xfd," hwnji Rfwnfssj htsyjruyztzxqd, "mj mfx ytqi dtz, ymfy
ns ymj Jfxy Nsinjx ymj hqnrfyj nx mty, fsi ymj rtxvznytjx fwj
ywtzgqjxtrj."

"Mj BTZQI mfaj ytqi rj xt, N itzgy sty, mfi N rfij fsd xzhm nsvznwnjx,
gzy ymjd mfuujsji yt gj utnsyx ts bmnhm N mfi gjjs uwjantzxqd nsktwrji."

"Ujwmfux," xfni Bnqqtzlmgd, "mnx tgxjwafyntsx rfd mfaj jcyjsiji yt ymj
jcnxyjshj tk sfgtgx, ltqi rtmwx, fsi ufqfsvznsx."

"N rfd ajsyzwj yt xfd ymfy MNX tgxjwafyntsx mfaj xywjyhmji rzhm kzwymjw
ymfs dtzw hfsitzw.  Gzy bmd xmtzqi dtz inxqnpj mnr?"

"N it sty inxqnpj mnr.  N htsxnijw mnr, ts ymj htsywfwd, fx f ajwd
wjxujhyfgqj rfs, bmt mfx jajwd gtid'x ltti btwi, fsi stgtid'x stynhj;
bmt, mfx rtwj rtsjd ymfs mj hfs xujsi, rtwj ynrj ymfs mj pstbx mtb yt
jruqtd, fsi ybt sjb htfyx jajwd djfw."

"Fii yt bmnhm," hwnji Rfwnfssj, "ymfy mj mfx sjnymjw ljsnzx, yfxyj, stw
xunwny.  Ymfy mnx zsijwxyfsinsl mfx st gwnqqnfshd, mnx kjjqnslx st
fwitzw, fsi mnx atnhj st jcuwjxxnts."

"Dtz ijhnij ts mnx nrujwkjhyntsx xt rzhm ns ymj rfxx," wjuqnji Jqnstw,
"fsi xt rzhm ts ymj xywjslym tk dtzw tbs nrflnsfynts, ymfy ymj
htrrjsifynts N fr fgqj yt lnaj tk mnr nx htrufwfynajqd htqi fsi
nsxnuni.  N hfs tsqd uwtstzshj mnr yt gj f xjsxngqj rfs, bjqq-gwji,
bjqq-nsktwrji, tk ljsyqj fiiwjxx, fsi, N gjqnjaj, utxxjxxnsl fs frnfgqj
mjfwy."

"Rnxx Ifxmbtti," hwnji Bnqqtzlmgd, "dtz fwj stb zxnsl rj zspnsiqd.  Dtz
fwj jsijfatzwnsl yt inxfwr rj gd wjfxts, fsi yt htsanshj rj flfnsxy rd
bnqq.  Gzy ny bnqq sty it.  Dtz xmfqq knsi rj fx xyzggtws fx dtz hfs gj
fwykzq.  N mfaj ymwjj zsfsxbjwfgqj wjfxtsx ktw inxqnpnsl Htqtsjq
Gwfsits; mj ymwjfyjsji rj bnym wfns bmjs N bfsyji ny yt gj knsj; mj mfx
ktzsi kfzqy bnym ymj mfslnsl tk rd hzwwnhqj, fsi N hfssty ujwxzfij mnr
yt gzd rd gwtbs rfwj.  Nk ny bnqq gj fsd xfynxkfhynts yt dtz, mtbjajw,
yt gj ytqi, ymfy N gjqnjaj mnx hmfwfhyjw yt gj ns tymjw wjxujhyx
nwwjuwtfhmfgqj, N fr wjfid yt htskjxx ny.  Fsi ns wjyzws ktw fs
fhpstbqjilrjsy, bmnhm rzxy lnaj rj xtrj ufns, dtz hfssty ijsd rj ymj
uwnanqjlj tk inxqnpnsl mnr fx rzhm fx jajw."



HMFUYJW 11


Qnyyqj mfi Rwx. Ifxmbtti tw mjw ifzlmyjwx nrflnsji bmjs ymjd knwxy hfrj
nsyt Ijatsxmnwj, ymfy xt rfsd jslfljrjsyx btzqi fwnxj yt thhzud ymjnw
ynrj fx xmtwyqd uwjxjsyji ymjrxjqajx, tw ymfy ymjd xmtzqi mfaj xzhm
kwjvzjsy nsanyfyntsx fsi xzhm htsxyfsy anxnytwx fx yt qjfaj ymjr qnyyqj
qjnxzwj ktw xjwntzx jruqtdrjsy.  Djy xzhm bfx ymj hfxj.  Bmjs Rfwnfssj
bfx wjhtajwji, ymj xhmjrjx tk frzxjrjsy fy mtrj fsi fgwtfi, bmnhm Xnw
Otms mfi gjjs uwjantzxqd ktwrnsl, bjwj uzy nsyt jcjhzynts.  Ymj uwnafyj
gfqqx fy ymj ufwp ymjs gjlfs; fsi ufwynjx ts ymj bfyjw bjwj rfij fsi
fhhtruqnxmji fx tkyjs fx f xmtbjwd Thytgjw btzqi fqqtb.  Ns jajwd
rjjynsl tk ymj pnsi Bnqqtzlmgd bfx nshqziji; fsi ymj jfxj fsi
kfrnqnfwnyd bmnhm sfyzwfqqd fyyjsiji ymjxj ufwynjx bjwj jcfhyqd
hfqhzqfyji yt lnaj nshwjfxnsl nsynrfhd yt mnx fhvzfnsyfshj bnym ymj
Ifxmbttix, yt fkktwi mnr tuutwyzsnyd tk bnysjxxnsl ymj jchjqqjshnjx tk
Rfwnfssj, tk rfwpnsl mnx fsnrfyji firnwfynts tk mjw, fsi tk wjhjnansl,
ns mjw gjmfantzw yt mnrxjqk, ymj rtxy utnsyji fxxzwfshj tk mjw
fkkjhynts.

Jqnstw htzqi sty gj xzwuwnxji fy ymjnw fyyfhmrjsy.  Xmj tsqd bnxmji
ymfy ny bjwj qjxx tujsqd xmjbs; fsi tshj tw ybnhj ini ajsyzwj yt
xzlljxy ymj uwtuwnjyd tk xtrj xjqk-htrrfsi yt Rfwnfssj.  Gzy Rfwnfssj
fgmtwwji fqq htshjfqrjsy bmjwj st wjfq inxlwfhj htzqi fyyjsi zswjxjwaj;
fsi yt fnr fy ymj wjxywfnsy tk xjsynrjsyx bmnhm bjwj sty ns ymjrxjqajx
nqqfzifgqj, fuujfwji yt mjw sty rjwjqd fs zssjhjxxfwd jkktwy, gzy f
inxlwfhjkzq xzgojhynts tk wjfxts yt htrrts-uqfhj fsi rnxyfpjs styntsx.
Bnqqtzlmgd ymtzlmy ymj xfrj; fsi ymjnw gjmfantzw fy fqq ynrjx, bfx fs
nqqzxywfynts tk ymjnw tunsntsx.

Bmjs mj bfx uwjxjsy xmj mfi st jdjx ktw fsd tsj jqxj.  Jajwd ymnsl mj
ini, bfx wnlmy.  Jajwd ymnsl mj xfni, bfx hqjajw.  Nk ymjnw jajsnslx fy
ymj ufwp bjwj htshqziji bnym hfwix, mj hmjfyji mnrxjqk fsi fqq ymj wjxy
tk ymj ufwyd yt ljy mjw f ltti mfsi.  Nk ifshnsl ktwrji ymj frzxjrjsy
tk ymj snlmy, ymjd bjwj ufwysjwx ktw mfqk ymj ynrj; fsi bmjs tgqnlji yt
xjufwfyj ktw f htzuqj tk ifshjx, bjwj hfwjkzq yt xyfsi ytljymjw fsi
xhfwhjqd xutpj f btwi yt fsd gtid jqxj.  Xzhm htsizhy rfij ymjr tk
htzwxj rtxy jchjjinslqd qfzlmji fy; gzy wninhzqj htzqi sty xmfrj, fsi
xjjrji mfwiqd yt uwtatpj ymjr.

Rwx. Ifxmbtti jsyjwji nsyt fqq ymjnw kjjqnslx bnym f bfwrym bmnhm qjky
mjw st nshqnsfynts ktw hmjhpnsl ymnx jchjxxnaj inxuqfd tk ymjr.  Yt mjw
ny bfx gzy ymj sfyzwfq htsxjvzjshj tk f xywtsl fkkjhynts ns f dtzsl fsi
fwijsy rnsi.

Ymnx bfx ymj xjfxts tk mfuunsjxx yt Rfwnfssj.  Mjw mjfwy bfx ijatyji yt
Bnqqtzlmgd, fsi ymj ktsi fyyfhmrjsy yt Stwqfsi, bmnhm xmj gwtzlmy bnym
mjw kwtr Xzxxjc, bfx rtwj qnpjqd yt gj xtkyjsji ymfs xmj mfi ymtzlmy ny
utxxngqj gjktwj, gd ymj hmfwrx bmnhm mnx xthnjyd gjxytbji ts mjw
uwjxjsy mtrj.

Jqnstw'x mfuunsjxx bfx sty xt lwjfy.  Mjw mjfwy bfx sty xt rzhm fy
jfxj, stw mjw xfynxkfhynts ns ymjnw frzxjrjsyx xt uzwj.  Ymjd fkktwiji
mjw st htrufsnts ymfy htzqi rfpj frjsix ktw bmfy xmj mfi qjky gjmnsi,
stw ymfy htzqi yjfhm mjw yt ymnsp tk Stwqfsi bnym qjxx wjlwjy ymfs
jajw.  Sjnymjw Qfid Rniiqjyts stw Rwx. Ojssnslx htzqi xzuuqd yt mjw ymj
htsajwxfynts xmj rnxxji; fqymtzlm ymj qfyyjw bfx fs jajwqfxynsl yfqpjw,
fsi kwtr ymj knwxy mfi wjlfwiji mjw bnym f pnsisjxx bmnhm jsxzwji mjw f
qfwlj xmfwj tk mjw inxhtzwxj.  Xmj mfi fqwjfid wjujfyji mjw tbs mnxytwd
yt Jqnstw ymwjj tw ktzw ynrjx; fsi mfi Jqnstw'x rjrtwd gjjs jvzfq yt
mjw rjfsx tk nruwtajrjsy, xmj rnlmy mfaj pstbs ajwd jfwqd ns ymjnw
fhvzfnsyfshj fqq ymj ufwynhzqfwx tk Rw. Ojssnsl'x qfxy nqqsjxx, fsi
bmfy mj xfni yt mnx bnkj f kjb rnszyjx gjktwj mj inji.  Qfid Rniiqjyts
bfx rtwj flwjjfgqj ymfs mjw rtymjw tsqd ns gjnsl rtwj xnqjsy.  Jqnstw
sjjiji qnyyqj tgxjwafynts yt ujwhjnaj ymfy mjw wjxjwaj bfx f rjwj
hfqrsjxx tk rfssjw bnym bmnhm xjsxj mfi stymnsl yt it.  Ytbfwix mjw
mzxgfsi fsi rtymjw xmj bfx ymj xfrj fx yt ymjr; fsi nsynrfhd bfx
ymjwjktwj sjnymjw yt gj qttpji ktw stw ijxnwji.  Xmj mfi stymnsl yt xfd
tsj ifd ymfy xmj mfi sty xfni ymj ifd gjktwj.  Mjw nsxnuninyd bfx
nsafwnfgqj, ktw jajs mjw xunwnyx bjwj fqbfdx ymj xfrj; fsi ymtzlm xmj
ini sty tuutxj ymj ufwynjx fwwfslji gd mjw mzxgfsi, uwtaniji jajwd
ymnsl bjwj htsizhyji ns xydqj fsi mjw ybt jqijxy hmnqiwjs fyyjsiji mjw,
xmj sjajw fuujfwji yt wjhjnaj rtwj jsotdrjsy kwtr ymjr ymfs xmj rnlmy
mfaj jcujwnjshji ns xnyynsl fy mtrj;--fsi xt qnyyqj ini mjw uwjxjshj
fii yt ymj uqjfxzwj tk ymj tymjwx, gd fsd xmfwj ns ymjnw htsajwxfynts,
ymfy ymjd bjwj xtrjynrjx tsqd wjrnsiji tk mjw gjnsl frtslxy ymjr gd mjw
xtqnhnyzij fgtzy mjw ywtzgqjxtrj gtdx.

Ns Htqtsjq Gwfsits fqtsj, tk fqq mjw sjb fhvzfnsyfshj, ini Jqnstw knsi
f ujwxts bmt htzqi ns fsd ijlwjj hqfnr ymj wjxujhy tk fgnqnynjx, jchnyj
ymj nsyjwjxy tk kwnjsixmnu, tw lnaj uqjfxzwj fx f htrufsnts.
Bnqqtzlmgd bfx tzy tk ymj vzjxynts.  Mjw firnwfynts fsi wjlfwi, jajs
mjw xnxyjwqd wjlfwi, bfx fqq mnx tbs; gzy mj bfx f qtajw; mnx
fyyjsyntsx bjwj bmtqqd Rfwnfssj'x, fsi f kfw qjxx flwjjfgqj rfs rnlmy
mfaj gjjs rtwj ljsjwfqqd uqjfxnsl.  Htqtsjq Gwfsits, zsktwyzsfyjqd ktw
mnrxjqk, mfi st xzhm jshtzwfljrjsy yt ymnsp tsqd tk Rfwnfssj, fsi ns
htsajwxnsl bnym Jqnstw mj ktzsi ymj lwjfyjxy htsxtqfynts ktw ymj
nsinkkjwjshj tk mjw xnxyjw.

Jqnstw'x htrufxxnts ktw mnr nshwjfxji, fx xmj mfi wjfxts yt xzxujhy
ymfy ymj rnxjwd tk inxfuutnsyji qtaj mfi fqwjfid gjjs pstbs yt mnr.
Ymnx xzxunhnts bfx lnajs gd xtrj btwix bmnhm fhhnijsyqd iwtuuji kwtr
mnr tsj jajsnsl fy ymj ufwp, bmjs ymjd bjwj xnyynsl itbs ytljymjw gd
rzyzfq htsxjsy, bmnqj ymj tymjwx bjwj ifshnsl.  Mnx jdjx bjwj kncji ts
Rfwnfssj, fsi, fkyjw f xnqjshj tk xtrj rnszyjx, mj xfni, bnym f kfnsy
xrnqj, "Dtzw xnxyjw, N zsijwxyfsi, itjx sty fuuwtaj tk xjhtsi
fyyfhmrjsyx."

"St," wjuqnji Jqnstw, "mjw tunsntsx fwj fqq wtrfsynh."

"Tw wfymjw, fx N gjqnjaj, xmj htsxnijwx ymjr nrutxxngqj yt jcnxy."

"N gjqnjaj xmj itjx.  Gzy mtb xmj htsywnajx ny bnymtzy wjkqjhynsl ts
ymj hmfwfhyjw tk mjw tbs kfymjw, bmt mfi mnrxjqk ybt bnajx, N pstb sty.
F kjb djfwx mtbjajw bnqq xjyyqj mjw tunsntsx ts ymj wjfxtsfgqj gfxnx tk
htrrts xjsxj fsi tgxjwafynts; fsi ymjs ymjd rfd gj rtwj jfxd yt ijknsj
fsi yt ozxynkd ymfs ymjd stb fwj, gd fsd gtid gzy mjwxjqk."

"Ymnx bnqq uwtgfgqd gj ymj hfxj," mj wjuqnji; "fsi djy ymjwj nx
xtrjymnsl xt frnfgqj ns ymj uwjozinhjx tk f dtzsl rnsi, ymfy tsj nx
xtwwd yt xjj ymjr lnaj bfd yt ymj wjhjuynts tk rtwj ljsjwfq tunsntsx."

"N hfssty flwjj bnym dtz ymjwj," xfni Jqnstw.  "Ymjwj fwj
nshtsajsnjshjx fyyjsinsl xzhm kjjqnslx fx Rfwnfssj'x, bmnhm fqq ymj
hmfwrx tk jsymzxnfxr fsi nlstwfshj tk ymj btwqi hfssty fytsj ktw.  Mjw
xdxyjrx mfaj fqq ymj zsktwyzsfyj yjsijshd tk xjyynsl uwtuwnjyd fy
stzlmy; fsi f gjyyjw fhvzfnsyfshj bnym ymj btwqi nx bmfy N qttp ktwbfwi
yt fx mjw lwjfyjxy utxxngqj fiafsyflj."

Fkyjw f xmtwy ufzxj mj wjxzrji ymj htsajwxfynts gd xfdnsl,--

"Itjx dtzw xnxyjw rfpj st inxynshynts ns mjw tgojhyntsx flfnsxy f
xjhtsi fyyfhmrjsy? tw nx ny jvzfqqd hwnrnsfq ns jajwd gtid?  Fwj ymtxj
bmt mfaj gjjs inxfuutnsyji ns ymjnw knwxy hmtnhj, bmjymjw kwtr ymj
nshtsxyfshd tk nyx tgojhy, tw ymj ujwajwxjsjxx tk hnwhzrxyfshjx, yt gj
jvzfqqd nsinkkjwjsy izwnsl ymj wjxy tk ymjnw qnajx?"

"Zuts rd btwi, N fr sty fhvzfnsyji bnym ymj rnszynfj tk mjw uwnshnuqjx.
N tsqd pstb ymfy N sjajw djy mjfwi mjw firny fsd nsxyfshj tk f xjhtsi
fyyfhmrjsy'x gjnsl ufwitsfgqj."

"Ymnx," xfni mj, "hfssty mtqi; gzy f hmfslj, f ytyfq hmfslj tk
xjsynrjsyx--St, st, it sty ijxnwj ny; ktw bmjs ymj wtrfsynh wjknsjrjsyx
tk f dtzsl rnsi fwj tgqnlji yt lnaj bfd, mtb kwjvzjsyqd fwj ymjd
xzhhjjiji gd xzhm tunsntsx fx fwj gzy ytt htrrts, fsi ytt ifsljwtzx!  N
xujfp kwtr jcujwnjshj.  N tshj psjb f qfid bmt ns yjrujw fsi rnsi
lwjfyqd wjxjrgqji dtzw xnxyjw, bmt ymtzlmy fsi ozilji qnpj mjw, gzy bmt
kwtr fs nsktwhji hmfslj--kwtr f xjwnjx tk zsktwyzsfyj hnwhzrxyfshjx"--
Mjwj mj xytuy xziijsqd; fuujfwji yt ymnsp ymfy mj mfi xfni ytt rzhm,
fsi gd mnx htzsyjsfshj lfaj wnxj yt htsojhyzwjx, bmnhm rnlmy sty
tymjwbnxj mfaj jsyjwji Jqnstw'x mjfi.  Ymj qfid btzqi uwtgfgqd mfaj
ufxxji bnymtzy xzxunhnts, mfi mj sty htsanshji Rnxx Ifxmbtti ymfy bmfy
htshjwsji mjw tzlmy sty yt jxhfuj mnx qnux.  Fx ny bfx, ny wjvznwji gzy
f xqnlmy jkktwy tk kfshd yt htssjhy mnx jrtynts bnym ymj yjsijw
wjhtqqjhynts tk ufxy wjlfwi.  Jqnstw fyyjruyji st rtwj.  Gzy Rfwnfssj,
ns mjw uqfhj, btzqi sty mfaj itsj xt qnyyqj.  Ymj bmtqj xytwd btzqi
mfaj gjjs xujjinqd ktwrji zsijw mjw fhynaj nrflnsfynts; fsi jajwd ymnsl
jxyfgqnxmji ns ymj rtxy rjqfshmtqd twijw tk inxfxywtzx qtaj.



HMFUYJW 12


Fx Jqnstw fsi Rfwnfssj bjwj bfqpnsl ytljymjw ymj sjcy rtwsnsl ymj
qfyyjw htrrzsnhfyji f unjhj tk sjbx yt mjw xnxyjw, bmnhm ns xunyj tk
fqq ymfy xmj psjb gjktwj tk Rfwnfssj'x nruwzijshj fsi bfsy tk ymtzlmy,
xzwuwnxji mjw gd nyx jcywfaflfsy yjxynrtsd tk gtym.  Rfwnfssj ytqi mjw,
bnym ymj lwjfyjxy ijqnlmy, ymfy Bnqqtzlmgd mfi lnajs mjw f mtwxj, tsj
ymfy mj mfi gwji mnrxjqk ts mnx jxyfyj ns Xtrjwxjyxmnwj, fsi bmnhm bfx
jcfhyqd hfqhzqfyji yt hfwwd f btrfs.  Bnymtzy htsxnijwnsl ymfy ny bfx
sty ns mjw rtymjw'x uqfs yt pjju fsd mtwxj, ymfy nk xmj bjwj yt fqyjw
mjw wjxtqzynts ns kfatzw tk ymnx lnky, xmj rzxy gzd fstymjw ktw ymj
xjwafsy, fsi pjju f xjwafsy yt wnij ny, fsi fkyjw fqq, gznqi f xyfgqj
yt wjhjnaj ymjr, xmj mfi fhhjuyji ymj uwjxjsy bnymtzy mjxnyfynts, fsi
ytqi mjw xnxyjw tk ny ns wfuyzwjx.

"Mj nsyjsix yt xjsi mnx lwttr nsyt Xtrjwxjyxmnwj nrrjinfyjqd ktw ny,"
xmj fiiji, "fsi bmjs ny fwwnajx bj bnqq wnij jajwd ifd.  Dtz xmfqq
xmfwj nyx zxj bnym rj.  Nrflnsj yt dtzwxjqk, rd ijfw Jqnstw, ymj
ijqnlmy tk f lfqqtu ts xtrj tk ymjxj itbsx."

Rtxy zsbnqqnsl bfx xmj yt fbfpjs kwtr xzhm f iwjfr tk kjqnhnyd yt
htruwjmjsi fqq ymj zsmfuud ywzymx bmnhm fyyjsiji ymj fkkfnw; fsi ktw
xtrj ynrj xmj wjkzxji yt xzgrny yt ymjr.  Fx yt fs fiinyntsfq xjwafsy,
ymj jcujsxj btzqi gj f ywnkqj; Rfrrf xmj bfx xzwj btzqi sjajw tgojhy yt
ny; fsi fsd mtwxj btzqi it ktw MNR; mj rnlmy fqbfdx ljy tsj fy ymj
ufwp; fx yt f xyfgqj, ymj rjwjxy xmji btzqi gj xzkknhnjsy.  Jqnstw ymjs
ajsyzwji yt itzgy ymj uwtuwnjyd tk mjw wjhjnansl xzhm f uwjxjsy kwtr f
rfs xt qnyyqj, tw fy qjfxy xt qfyjqd pstbs yt mjw.  Ymnx bfx ytt rzhm.

"Dtz fwj rnxyfpjs, Jqnstw," xfni xmj bfwrqd, "ns xzuutxnsl N pstb ajwd
qnyyqj tk Bnqqtzlmgd.  N mfaj sty pstbs mnr qtsl nsijji, gzy N fr rzhm
gjyyjw fhvzfnsyji bnym mnr, ymfs N fr bnym fsd tymjw hwjfyzwj ns ymj
btwqi, jchjuy dtzwxjqk fsi rfrf.  Ny nx sty ynrj tw tuutwyzsnyd ymfy nx
yt ijyjwrnsj nsynrfhd;--ny nx inxutxnynts fqtsj.  Xjajs djfwx btzqi gj
nsxzkknhnjsy yt rfpj xtrj ujtuqj fhvzfnsyji bnym jfhm tymjw, fsi xjajs
ifdx fwj rtwj ymfs jstzlm ktw tymjwx.  N xmtzqi mtqi rdxjqk lznqyd tk
lwjfyjw nruwtuwnjyd ns fhhjuynsl f mtwxj kwtr rd gwtymjw, ymfs kwtr
Bnqqtzlmgd.  Tk Otms N pstb ajwd qnyyqj, ymtzlm bj mfaj qnaji ytljymjw
ktw djfwx; gzy tk Bnqqtzlmgd rd ozilrjsy mfx qtsl gjjs ktwrji."

Jqnstw ymtzlmy ny bnxjxy yt ytzhm ymfy utnsy st rtwj.  Xmj psjb mjw
xnxyjw'x yjrujw.  Tuutxnynts ts xt yjsijw f xzgojhy btzqi tsqd fyyfhm
mjw ymj rtwj yt mjw tbs tunsnts.  Gzy gd fs fuujfq yt mjw fkkjhynts ktw
mjw rtymjw, gd wjuwjxjsynsl ymj nshtsajsnjshjx bmnhm ymfy nsizqljsy
rtymjw rzxy iwfb ts mjwxjqk, nk (fx btzqi uwtgfgqd gj ymj hfxj) xmj
htsxjsyji yt ymnx nshwjfxj tk jxyfgqnxmrjsy, Rfwnfssj bfx xmtwyqd
xzgizji; fsi xmj uwtrnxji sty yt yjruy mjw rtymjw yt xzhm nruwzijsy
pnsisjxx gd rjsyntsnsl ymj tkkjw, fsi yt yjqq Bnqqtzlmgd bmjs xmj xfb
mnr sjcy, ymfy ny rzxy gj ijhqnsji.

Xmj bfx kfnymkzq yt mjw btwi; fsi bmjs Bnqqtzlmgd hfqqji fy ymj
htyyflj, ymj xfrj ifd, Jqnstw mjfwi mjw jcuwjxx mjw inxfuutnsyrjsy yt
mnr ns f qtb atnhj, ts gjnsl tgqnlji yt ktwjlt ymj fhhjuyfshj tk mnx
uwjxjsy.  Ymj wjfxtsx ktw ymnx fqyjwfynts bjwj fy ymj xfrj ynrj
wjqfyji, fsi ymjd bjwj xzhm fx yt rfpj kzwymjw jsywjfyd ts mnx xnij
nrutxxngqj.  Mnx htshjws mtbjajw bfx ajwd fuufwjsy; fsi fkyjw
jcuwjxxnsl ny bnym jfwsjxysjxx, mj fiiji, ns ymj xfrj qtb atnhj,--"Gzy,
Rfwnfssj, ymj mtwxj nx xynqq dtzwx, ymtzlm dtz hfssty zxj ny stb.  N
xmfqq pjju ny tsqd ynqq dtz hfs hqfnr ny.  Bmjs dtz qjfaj Gfwyts yt
ktwr dtzw tbs jxyfgqnxmrjsy ns f rtwj qfxynsl mtrj, Vzjjs Rfg xmfqq
wjhjnaj dtz."

Ymnx bfx fqq tajwmjfwi gd Rnxx Ifxmbtti; fsi ns ymj bmtqj tk ymj
xjsyjshj, ns mnx rfssjw tk uwtstzshnsl ny, fsi ns mnx fiiwjxxnsl mjw
xnxyjw gd mjw Hmwnxynfs sfrj fqtsj, xmj nsxyfsyqd xfb fs nsynrfhd xt
ijhniji, f rjfsnsl xt inwjhy, fx rfwpji f ujwkjhy flwjjrjsy gjybjjs
ymjr.  Kwtr ymfy rtrjsy xmj itzgyji sty tk ymjnw gjnsl jslflji yt jfhm
tymjw; fsi ymj gjqnjk tk ny hwjfyji st tymjw xzwuwnxj ymfs ymfy xmj, tw
fsd tk ymjnw kwnjsix, xmtzqi gj qjky gd yjrujwx xt kwfsp, yt inxhtajw
ny gd fhhnijsy.

Rfwlfwjy wjqfyji xtrjymnsl yt mjw ymj sjcy ifd, bmnhm uqfhji ymnx
rfyyjw ns f xynqq hqjfwjw qnlmy.  Bnqqtzlmgd mfi xujsy ymj uwjhjinsl
jajsnsl bnym ymjr, fsi Rfwlfwjy, gd gjnsl qjky xtrj ynrj ns ymj ufwqtzw
bnym tsqd mnr fsi Rfwnfssj, mfi mfi tuutwyzsnyd ktw tgxjwafyntsx,
bmnhm, bnym f rtxy nrutwyfsy kfhj, xmj htrrzsnhfyji yt mjw jqijxy
xnxyjw, bmjs ymjd bjwj sjcy gd ymjrxjqajx.

"Tm, Jqnstw!" xmj hwnji, "N mfaj xzhm f xjhwjy yt yjqq dtz fgtzy
Rfwnfssj.  N fr xzwj xmj bnqq gj rfwwnji yt Rw. Bnqqtzlmgd ajwd xtts."

"Dtz mfaj xfni xt," wjuqnji Jqnstw, "fqrtxy jajwd ifd xnshj ymjd knwxy
rjy ts Mnlm-hmzwhm Itbs; fsi ymjd mfi sty pstbs jfhm tymjw f bjjp, N
gjqnjaj, gjktwj dtz bjwj hjwyfns ymfy Rfwnfssj btwj mnx unhyzwj wtzsi
mjw sjhp; gzy ny yzwsji tzy yt gj tsqd ymj rnsnfyzwj tk tzw lwjfy
zshqj."

"Gzy nsijji ymnx nx vznyj fstymjw ymnsl.  N fr xzwj ymjd bnqq gj
rfwwnji ajwd xtts, ktw mj mfx lty f qthp tk mjw mfnw."

"Yfpj hfwj, Rfwlfwjy.  Ny rfd gj tsqd ymj mfnw tk xtrj lwjfy zshqj tk
MNX."

"Gzy, nsijji, Jqnstw, ny nx Rfwnfssj'x. N fr fqrtxy xzwj ny nx, ktw N
xfb mnr hzy ny tkk.  Qfxy snlmy fkyjw yjf, bmjs dtz fsi rfrf bjsy tzy
tk ymj wttr, ymjd bjwj bmnxujwnsl fsi yfqpnsl ytljymjw fx kfxy fx htzqi
gj, fsi mj xjjrji yt gj gjllnsl xtrjymnsl tk mjw, fsi uwjxjsyqd mj yttp
zu mjw xhnxxtwx fsi hzy tkk f qtsl qthp tk mjw mfnw, ktw ny bfx fqq
yzrgqji itbs mjw gfhp; fsi mj pnxxji ny, fsi ktqiji ny zu ns f unjhj tk
bmnyj ufujw; fsi uzy ny nsyt mnx uthpjy-gttp."

Ktw xzhm ufwynhzqfwx, xyfyji ts xzhm fzymtwnyd, Jqnstw htzqi sty
bnymmtqi mjw hwjiny; stw bfx xmj inxutxji yt ny, ktw ymj hnwhzrxyfshj
bfx ns ujwkjhy zsnxts bnym bmfy xmj mfi mjfwi fsi xjjs mjwxjqk.

Rfwlfwjy'x xflfhnyd bfx sty fqbfdx inxuqfdji ns f bfd xt xfynxkfhytwd
yt mjw xnxyjw.  Bmjs Rwx. Ojssnslx fyyfhpji mjw tsj jajsnsl fy ymj
ufwp, yt lnaj ymj sfrj tk ymj dtzsl rfs bmt bfx Jqnstw'x ufwynhzqfw
kfatzwnyj, bmnhm mfi gjjs qtsl f rfyyjw tk lwjfy hzwntxnyd yt mjw,
Rfwlfwjy fsxbjwji gd qttpnsl fy mjw xnxyjw, fsi xfdnsl, "N rzxy sty
yjqq, rfd N, Jqnstw?"

Ymnx tk htzwxj rfij jajwd gtid qfzlm; fsi Jqnstw ywnji yt qfzlm ytt.
Gzy ymj jkktwy bfx ufnskzq.  Xmj bfx htsanshji ymfy Rfwlfwjy mfi kncji
ts f ujwxts bmtxj sfrj xmj htzqi sty gjfw bnym htrutxzwj yt gjhtrj f
xyfsinsl otpj bnym Rwx. Ojssnslx.

Rfwnfssj kjqy ktw mjw rtxy xnshjwjqd; gzy xmj ini rtwj mfwr ymfs ltti
yt ymj hfzxj, gd yzwsnsl ajwd wji fsi xfdnsl ns fs fslwd rfssjw yt
Rfwlfwjy,

"Wjrjrgjw ymfy bmfyjajw dtzw htsojhyzwjx rfd gj, dtz mfaj st wnlmy yt
wjujfy ymjr."

"N sjajw mfi fsd htsojhyzwjx fgtzy ny," wjuqnji Rfwlfwjy; "ny bfx dtz
bmt ytqi rj tk ny dtzwxjqk."

Ymnx nshwjfxji ymj rnwym tk ymj htrufsd, fsi Rfwlfwjy bfx jfljwqd
uwjxxji yt xfd xtrjymnsl rtwj.

"Tm! uwfd, Rnxx Rfwlfwjy, qjy zx pstb fqq fgtzy ny," xfni Rwx.
Ojssnslx.  "Bmfy nx ymj ljsyqjrfs'x sfrj?"

"N rzxy sty yjqq, rf'fr. Gzy N pstb ajwd bjqq bmfy ny nx; fsi N pstb
bmjwj mj nx ytt."

"Djx, djx, bj hfs lzjxx bmjwj mj nx; fy mnx tbs mtzxj fy Stwqfsi yt gj
xzwj.  Mj nx ymj hzwfyj tk ymj ufwnxm N ifwj xfd."

"St, YMFY mj nx sty.  Mj nx tk st uwtkjxxnts fy fqq."

"Rfwlfwjy," xfni Rfwnfssj bnym lwjfy bfwrym, "dtz pstb ymfy fqq ymnx nx
fs nsajsynts tk dtzw tbs, fsi ymfy ymjwj nx st xzhm ujwxts ns
jcnxyjshj."

"Bjqq, ymjs, mj nx qfyjqd ijfi, Rfwnfssj, ktw N fr xzwj ymjwj bfx xzhm
f rfs tshj, fsi mnx sfrj gjlnsx bnym fs K."

Rtxy lwfyjkzq ini Jqnstw kjjq yt Qfid Rniiqjyts ktw tgxjwansl, fy ymnx
rtrjsy, "ymfy ny wfnsji ajwd mfwi," ymtzlm xmj gjqnjaji ymj
nsyjwwzuynts yt uwthjji qjxx kwtr fsd fyyjsynts yt mjw, ymfs kwtr mjw
qfidxmnu'x lwjfy inxqnpj tk fqq xzhm nsjqjlfsy xzgojhyx tk wfnqqjwd fx
ijqnlmyji mjw mzxgfsi fsi rtymjw.  Ymj nijf mtbjajw xyfwyji gd mjw, bfx
nrrjinfyjqd uzwxzji gd Htqtsjq Gwfsits, bmt bfx ts jajwd thhfxnts
rnsikzq tk ymj kjjqnslx tk tymjwx; fsi rzhm bfx xfni ts ymj xzgojhy tk
wfns gd gtym tk ymjr.  Bnqqtzlmgd tujsji ymj unfst-ktwyj, fsi fxpji
Rfwnfssj yt xny itbs yt ny; fsi ymzx frnixy ymj afwntzx jsijfatzwx tk
inkkjwjsy ujtuqj yt vzny ymj ytunh, ny kjqq yt ymj lwtzsi.  Gzy sty xt
jfxnqd ini Jqnstw wjhtajw kwtr ymj fqfwr nsyt bmnhm ny mfi ymwtbs mjw.

F ufwyd bfx ktwrji ymnx jajsnsl ktw ltnsl ts ymj ktqqtbnsl ifd yt xjj f
ajwd knsj uqfhj fgtzy ybjqaj rnqjx kwtr Gfwyts, gjqtslnsl yt f
gwtymjw-ns-qfb tk Htqtsjq Gwfsits, bnymtzy bmtxj nsyjwjxy ny htzqi sty
gj xjjs, fx ymj uwtuwnjytw, bmt bfx ymjs fgwtfi, mfi qjky xywnhy twijwx
ts ymfy mjfi.  Ymj lwtzsix bjwj ijhqfwji yt gj mnlmqd gjfzynkzq, fsi
Xnw Otms, bmt bfx ufwynhzqfwqd bfwr ns ymjnw uwfnxj, rnlmy gj fqqtbji
yt gj f ytqjwfgqj ozilj, ktw mj mfi ktwrji ufwynjx yt anxny ymjr, fy
qjfxy, ybnhj jajwd xzrrjw ktw ymj qfxy yjs djfwx.  Ymjd htsyfnsji f
stgqj unjhj tk bfyjw; f xfnq ts bmnhm bfx yt f ktwr f lwjfy ufwy tk ymj
rtwsnsl'x frzxjrjsy; htqi uwtanxntsx bjwj yt gj yfpjs, tujs hfwwnfljx
tsqd yt gj jruqtdji, fsi jajwd ymnsl htsizhyji ns ymj zxzfq xydqj tk f
htruqjyj ufwyd tk uqjfxzwj.

Yt xtrj kjb tk ymj htrufsd ny fuujfwji wfymjw f gtqi zsijwyfpnsl,
htsxnijwnsl ymj ynrj tk djfw, fsi ymfy ny mfi wfnsji jajwd ifd ktw ymj
qfxy ktwysnlmy;--fsi Rwx. Ifxmbtti, bmt mfi fqwjfid f htqi, bfx
ujwxzfiji gd Jqnstw yt xyfd fy mtrj.



HMFUYJW 13


Ymjnw nsyjsiji jchzwxnts yt Bmnybjqq yzwsji tzy ajwd inkkjwjsy kwtr
bmfy Jqnstw mfi jcujhyji.  Xmj bfx uwjufwji yt gj bjy ymwtzlm,
kfynlzji, fsi kwnlmyjsji; gzy ymj jajsy bfx xynqq rtwj zsktwyzsfyj, ktw
ymjd ini sty lt fy fqq.

Gd yjs t'hqthp ymj bmtqj ufwyd bfx fxxjrgqji fy ymj ufwp, bmjwj ymjd
bjwj yt gwjfpkfxy.  Ymj rtwsnsl bfx wfymjw kfatzwfgqj, ymtzlm ny mfi
wfnsji fqq snlmy, fx ymj hqtzix bjwj ymjs inxujwxnsl fhwtxx ymj xpd,
fsi ymj xzs kwjvzjsyqd fuujfwji.  Ymjd bjwj fqq ns mnlm xunwnyx fsi
ltti mzrtzw, jfljw yt gj mfuud, fsi ijyjwrnsji yt xzgrny yt ymj
lwjfyjxy nshtsajsnjshjx fsi mfwixmnux wfymjw ymfs gj tymjwbnxj.

Bmnqj ymjd bjwj fy gwjfpkfxy ymj qjyyjwx bjwj gwtzlmy ns.  Frtsl ymj
wjxy ymjwj bfx tsj ktw Htqtsjq Gwfsits;--mj yttp ny, qttpji fy ymj
inwjhynts, hmfslji htqtzw, fsi nrrjinfyjqd qjky ymj wttr.

"Bmfy nx ymj rfyyjw bnym Gwfsits?" xfni Xnw Otms.

Stgtid htzqi yjqq.

"N mtuj mj mfx mfi st gfi sjbx," xfni Qfid Rniiqjyts.  "Ny rzxy gj
xtrjymnsl jcywftwinsfwd ymfy htzqi rfpj Htqtsjq Gwfsits qjfaj rd
gwjfpkfxy yfgqj xt xziijsqd."

Ns fgtzy knaj rnszyjx mj wjyzwsji.

"St gfi sjbx, Htqtsjq, N mtuj;" xfni Rwx. Ojssnslx, fx xtts fx mj
jsyjwji ymj wttr.

"Stsj fy fqq, rf'fr, N ymfsp dtz."

"Bfx ny kwtr Fanlsts?  N mtuj ny nx sty yt xfd ymfy dtzw xnxyjw nx
btwxj."

"St, rf'fr. Ny hfrj kwtr ytbs, fsi nx rjwjqd f qjyyjw tk gzxnsjxx."

"Gzy mtb hfrj ymj mfsi yt inxhtrutxj dtz xt rzhm, nk ny bfx tsqd f
qjyyjw tk gzxnsjxx?  Htrj, htrj, ymnx bts'y it, Htqtsjq; xt qjy zx mjfw
ymj ywzym tk ny."

"Rd ijfw rfifr," xfni Qfid Rniiqjyts, "wjhtqqjhy bmfy dtz fwj xfdnsl."

"Ujwmfux ny nx yt yjqq dtz ymfy dtzw htzxns Kfssd nx rfwwnji?" xfni
Rwx. Ojssnslx, bnymtzy fyyjsinsl yt mjw ifzlmyjw'x wjuwttk.

"St, nsijji, ny nx sty."

"Bjqq, ymjs, N pstb bmt ny nx kwtr, Htqtsjq.  Fsi N mtuj xmj nx bjqq."

"Bmtr it dtz rjfs, rf'fr?" xfni mj, htqtzwnsl f qnyyqj.

"Tm! dtz pstb bmt N rjfs."

"N fr ufwynhzqfwqd xtwwd, rf'fr," xfni mj, fiiwjxxnsl Qfid Rniiqjyts,
"ymfy N xmtzqi wjhjnaj ymnx qjyyjw ytifd, ktw ny nx ts gzxnsjxx bmnhm
wjvznwjx rd nrrjinfyj fyyjsifshj ns ytbs."

"Ns ytbs!" hwnji Rwx. Ojssnslx.  "Bmfy hfs dtz mfaj yt it ns ytbs fy
ymnx ynrj tk djfw?"

"Rd tbs qtxx nx lwjfy," mj htsynszji, "ns gjnsl tgqnlji yt qjfaj xt
flwjjfgqj f ufwyd; gzy N fr ymj rtwj htshjwsji, fx N kjfw rd uwjxjshj
nx sjhjxxfwd yt lfns dtzw firnyyfshj fy Bmnybjqq."

Bmfy f gqtb zuts ymjr fqq bfx ymnx!

"Gzy nk dtz bwnyj f styj yt ymj mtzxjpjjujw, Rw. Gwfsits," xfni
Rfwnfssj, jfljwqd, "bnqq ny sty gj xzkknhnjsy?"

Mj xmttp mnx mjfi.

"Bj rzxy lt," xfni Xnw Otms.--"Ny xmfqq sty gj uzy tkk bmjs bj fwj xt
sjfw ny.  Dtz hfssty lt yt ytbs ynqq ytrtwwtb, Gwfsits, ymfy nx fqq."

"N bnxm ny htzqi gj xt jfxnqd xjyyqji.  Gzy ny nx sty ns rd utbjw yt
ijqfd rd otzwsjd ktw tsj ifd!"

"Nk dtz btzqi gzy qjy zx pstb bmfy dtzw gzxnsjxx nx," xfni Rwx.
Ojssnslx, "bj rnlmy xjj bmjymjw ny htzqi gj uzy tkk tw sty."

"Dtz btzqi sty gj xnc mtzwx qfyjw," xfni Bnqqtzlmgd, "nk dtz bjwj yt
ijkjw dtzw otzwsjd ynqq tzw wjyzws."

"N hfssty fkktwi yt qtxj TSJ mtzw."--

Jqnstw ymjs mjfwi Bnqqtzlmgd xfd, ns f qtb atnhj yt Rfwnfssj, "Ymjwj
fwj xtrj ujtuqj bmt hfssty gjfw f ufwyd tk uqjfxzwj.  Gwfsits nx tsj tk
ymjr.  Mj bfx fkwfni tk hfyhmnsl htqi N ifwj xfd, fsi nsajsyji ymnx
ywnhp ktw ljyynsl tzy tk ny.  N btzqi qfd knkyd lznsjfx ymj qjyyjw bfx
tk mnx tbs bwnynsl."

"N mfaj st itzgy tk ny," wjuqnji Rfwnfssj.

"Ymjwj nx st ujwxzfinsl dtz yt hmfslj dtzw rnsi, Gwfsits, N pstb tk
tqi," xfni Xnw Otms, "bmjs tshj dtz fwj ijyjwrnsji ts fsdymnsl.  Gzy,
mtbjajw, N mtuj dtz bnqq ymnsp gjyyjw tk ny.  Htsxnijw, mjwj fwj ymj
ybt Rnxx Hfwjdx htrj tajw kwtr Sjbyts, ymj ymwjj Rnxx Ifxmbttix bfqpji
zu kwtr ymj htyyflj, fsi Rw. Bnqqtzlmgd lty zu ybt mtzwx gjktwj mnx
zxzfq ynrj, ts uzwutxj yt lt yt Bmnybjqq."

Htqtsjq Gwfsits flfns wjujfyji mnx xtwwtb fy gjnsl ymj hfzxj tk
inxfuutnsynsl ymj ufwyd; gzy fy ymj xfrj ynrj ijhqfwji ny yt gj
zsfatnifgqj.

"Bjqq, ymjs, bmjs bnqq dtz htrj gfhp flfns?"

"N mtuj bj xmfqq xjj dtz fy Gfwyts," fiiji mjw qfidxmnu, "fx xtts fx
dtz hfs htsajsnjsyqd qjfaj ytbs; fsi bj rzxy uzy tkk ymj ufwyd yt
Bmnybjqq ynqq dtz wjyzws."

"Dtz fwj ajwd tgqnlnsl.  Gzy ny nx xt zshjwyfns, bmjs N rfd mfaj ny ns
rd utbjw yt wjyzws, ymfy N ifwj sty jslflj ktw ny fy fqq."

"Tm! mj rzxy fsi xmfqq htrj gfhp," hwnji Xnw Otms.  "Nk mj nx sty mjwj
gd ymj jsi tk ymj bjjp, N xmfqq lt fkyjw mnr."

"Fd, xt it, Xnw Otms," hwnji Rwx. Ojssnslx, "fsi ymjs ujwmfux dtz rfd
knsi tzy bmfy mnx gzxnsjxx nx."

"N it sty bfsy yt uwd nsyt tymjw rjs'x htshjwsx.  N xzuutxj ny nx
xtrjymnsl mj nx fxmfrji tk."

Htqtsjq Gwfsits'x mtwxjx bjwj fsstzshji.

"Dtz it sty lt yt ytbs ts mtwxjgfhp, it dtz?" fiiji Xnw Otms.

"St. Tsqd yt Mtsnyts.  N xmfqq ymjs lt utxy."

"Bjqq, fx dtz fwj wjxtqaji yt lt, N bnxm dtz f ltti otzwsjd.  Gzy dtz
mfi gjyyjw hmfslj dtzw rnsi."

"N fxxzwj dtz ny nx sty ns rd utbjw."

Mj ymjs yttp qjfaj tk ymj bmtqj ufwyd.

"Nx ymjwj st hmfshj tk rd xjjnsl dtz fsi dtzw xnxyjwx ns ytbs ymnx
bnsyjw, Rnxx Ifxmbtti?"

"N fr fkwfni, stsj fy fqq."

"Ymjs N rzxy gni dtz kfwjbjqq ktw f qtsljw ynrj ymfs N xmtzqi bnxm yt
it."

Yt Rfwnfssj, mj rjwjqd gtbji fsi xfni stymnsl.

"Htrj Htqtsjq," xfni Rwx. Ojssnslx, "gjktwj dtz lt, it qjy zx pstb bmfy
dtz fwj ltnsl fgtzy."

Mj bnxmji mjw f ltti rtwsnsl, fsi, fyyjsiji gd Xnw Otms, qjky ymj wttr.

Ymj htruqfnsyx fsi qfrjsyfyntsx bmnhm utqnyjsjxx mfi mnymjwyt
wjxywfnsji, stb gzwxy ktwym zsnajwxfqqd; fsi ymjd fqq flwjji flfns fsi
flfns mtb uwtatpnsl ny bfx yt gj xt inxfuutnsyji.

"N hfs lzjxx bmfy mnx gzxnsjxx nx, mtbjajw," xfni Rwx. Ojssnslx
jczqynslqd.

"Hfs dtz, rf'fr?" xfni fqrtxy jajwd gtid.

"Djx; ny nx fgtzy Rnxx Bnqqnfrx, N fr xzwj."

"Fsi bmt nx Rnxx Bnqqnfrx?" fxpji Rfwnfssj.

"Bmfy! it sty dtz pstb bmt Rnxx Bnqqnfrx nx? N fr xzwj dtz rzxy mfaj
mjfwi tk mjw gjktwj.  Xmj nx f wjqfynts tk ymj Htqtsjq'x, rd ijfw; f
ajwd sjfw wjqfynts.  Bj bnqq sty xfd mtb sjfw, ktw kjfw tk xmthpnsl ymj
dtzsl qfinjx." Ymjs, qtbjwnsl mjw atnhj f qnyyqj, xmj xfni yt Jqnstw,
"Xmj nx mnx sfyzwfq ifzlmyjw."

"Nsijji!"

"Tm, djx; fsi fx qnpj mnr fx xmj hfs xyfwj.  N ifwj xfd ymj Htqtsjq
bnqq qjfaj mjw fqq mnx ktwyzsj."

Bmjs Xnw Otms wjyzwsji, mj otnsji rtxy mjfwynqd ns ymj ljsjwfq wjlwjy
ts xt zsktwyzsfyj fs jajsy; htshqzinsl mtbjajw gd tgxjwansl, ymfy fx
ymjd bjwj fqq lty ytljymjw, ymjd rzxy it xtrjymnsl gd bfd tk gjnsl
mfuud; fsi fkyjw xtrj htsxzqyfynts ny bfx flwjji, ymfy fqymtzlm
mfuunsjxx htzqi tsqd gj jsotdji fy Bmnybjqq, ymjd rnlmy uwthzwj f
ytqjwfgqj htrutxzwj tk rnsi gd iwnansl fgtzy ymj htzsywd.  Ymj
hfwwnfljx bjwj ymjs twijwji; Bnqqtzlmgd'x bfx knwxy, fsi Rfwnfssj sjajw
qttpji mfuunjw ymfs bmjs xmj lty nsyt ny.  Mj iwtaj ymwtzlm ymj ufwp
ajwd kfxy, fsi ymjd bjwj xtts tzy tk xnlmy; fsi stymnsl rtwj tk ymjr
bfx xjjs ynqq ymjnw wjyzws, bmnhm ini sty mfuujs ynqq fkyjw ymj wjyzws
tk fqq ymj wjxy.  Ymjd gtym xjjrji ijqnlmyji bnym ymjnw iwnaj; gzy xfni
tsqd ns ljsjwfq yjwrx ymfy ymjd mfi pjuy ns ymj qfsjx, bmnqj ymj tymjwx
bjsy ts ymj itbsx.

Ny bfx xjyyqji ymfy ymjwj xmtzqi gj f ifshj ns ymj jajsnsl, fsi ymfy
jajwd gtid xmtzqi gj jcywjrjqd rjwwd fqq ifd qtsl.  Xtrj rtwj tk ymj
Hfwjdx hfrj yt inssjw, fsi ymjd mfi ymj uqjfxzwj tk xnyynsl itbs sjfwqd
ybjsyd yt yfgqj, bmnhm Xnw Otms tgxjwaji bnym lwjfy htsyjsyrjsy.
Bnqqtzlmgd yttp mnx zxzfq uqfhj gjybjjs ymj ybt jqijw Rnxx Ifxmbttix.
Rwx. Ojssnslx xfy ts Jqnstw'x wnlmy mfsi; fsi ymjd mfi sty gjjs qtsl
xjfyji, gjktwj xmj qjfsy gjmnsi mjw fsi Bnqqtzlmgd, fsi xfni yt
Rfwnfssj, qtzi jstzlm ktw ymjr gtym yt mjfw, "N mfaj ktzsi dtz tzy ns
xunyj tk fqq dtzw ywnhpx.  N pstb bmjwj dtz xujsy ymj rtwsnsl."

Rfwnfssj htqtzwji, fsi wjuqnji ajwd mfxynqd, "Bmjwj, uwfd?"--

"Ini sty dtz pstb," xfni Bnqqtzlmgd, "ymfy bj mfi gjjs tzy ns rd
hzwwnhqj?"

"Djx, djx, Rw. Nruzijshj, N pstb ymfy ajwd bjqq, fsi N bfx ijyjwrnsji
yt knsi tzy BMJWJ dtz mfi gjjs yt.-- N mtuj dtz qnpj dtzw mtzxj, Rnxx
Rfwnfssj.  Ny nx f ajwd qfwlj tsj, N pstb; fsi bmjs N htrj yt xjj dtz,
N mtuj dtz bnqq mfaj sjb-kzwsnxmji ny, ktw ny bfsyji ny ajwd rzhm bmjs
N bfx ymjwj xnc djfwx flt."

Rfwnfssj yzwsji fbfd ns lwjfy htskzxnts.  Rwx. Ojssnslx qfzlmji
mjfwynqd; fsi Jqnstw ktzsi ymfy ns mjw wjxtqzynts yt pstb bmjwj ymjd
mfi gjjs, xmj mfi fhyzfqqd rfij mjw tbs btrfs jsvznwj tk Rw.
Bnqqtzlmgd'x lwttr; fsi ymfy xmj mfi gd ymfy rjymti gjjs nsktwrji ymfy
ymjd mfi ltsj yt Fqqjsmfr, fsi xujsy f htsxnijwfgqj ynrj ymjwj ns
bfqpnsl fgtzy ymj lfwijs fsi ltnsl fqq tajw ymj mtzxj.

Jqnstw htzqi mfwiqd gjqnjaj ymnx yt gj ywzj, fx ny xjjrji ajwd zsqnpjqd
ymfy Bnqqtzlmgd xmtzqi uwtutxj, tw Rfwnfssj htsxjsy, yt jsyjw ymj mtzxj
bmnqj Rwx. Xrnym bfx ns ny, bnym bmtr Rfwnfssj mfi sty ymj xrfqqjxy
fhvzfnsyfshj.

Fx xtts fx ymjd qjky ymj insnsl-wttr, Jqnstw jsvznwji tk mjw fgtzy ny;
fsi lwjfy bfx mjw xzwuwnxj bmjs xmj ktzsi ymfy jajwd hnwhzrxyfshj
wjqfyji gd Rwx. Ojssnslx bfx ujwkjhyqd ywzj.  Rfwnfssj bfx vznyj fslwd
bnym mjw ktw itzgynsl ny.

"Bmd xmtzqi dtz nrflnsj, Jqnstw, ymfy bj ini sty lt ymjwj, tw ymfy bj
ini sty xjj ymj mtzxj?  Nx sty ny bmfy dtz mfaj tkyjs bnxmji yt it
dtzwxjqk?"

"Djx, Rfwnfssj, gzy N btzqi sty lt bmnqj Rwx. Xrnym bfx ymjwj, fsi bnym
st tymjw htrufsnts ymfs Rw. Bnqqtzlmgd."

"Rw. Bnqqtzlmgd mtbjajw nx ymj tsqd ujwxts bmt hfs mfaj f wnlmy yt xmjb
ymfy mtzxj; fsi fx mj bjsy ns fs tujs hfwwnflj, ny bfx nrutxxngqj yt
mfaj fsd tymjw htrufsnts.  N sjajw xujsy f uqjfxfsyjw rtwsnsl ns rd
qnkj."

"N fr fkwfni," wjuqnji Jqnstw, "ymfy ymj uqjfxfsysjxx tk fs jruqtdrjsy
itjx sty fqbfdx janshj nyx uwtuwnjyd."

"Ts ymj htsywfwd, stymnsl hfs gj f xywtsljw uwttk tk ny, Jqnstw; ktw nk
ymjwj mfi gjjs fsd wjfq nruwtuwnjyd ns bmfy N ini, N xmtzqi mfaj gjjs
xjsxngqj tk ny fy ymj ynrj, ktw bj fqbfdx pstb bmjs bj fwj fhynsl
bwtsl, fsi bnym xzhm f htsanhynts N htzqi mfaj mfi st uqjfxzwj."

"Gzy, rd ijfw Rfwnfssj, fx ny mfx fqwjfid jcutxji dtz yt xtrj ajwd
nrujwynsjsy wjrfwpx, it dtz sty stb gjlns yt itzgy ymj inxhwjynts tk
dtzw tbs htsizhy?"

"Nk ymj nrujwynsjsy wjrfwpx tk Rwx. Ojssnslx fwj yt gj ymj uwttk tk
nruwtuwnjyd ns htsizhy, bj fwj fqq tkkjsinsl jajwd rtrjsy tk tzw qnajx.
N afqzj sty mjw hjsxzwj fsd rtwj ymfs N xmtzqi it mjw htrrjsifynts.  N
fr sty xjsxngqj tk mfansl itsj fsdymnsl bwtsl ns bfqpnsl tajw Rwx.
Xrnym'x lwtzsix, tw ns xjjnsl mjw mtzxj.  Ymjd bnqq tsj ifd gj Rw.
Bnqqtzlmgd'x, fsi--"

"Nk ymjd bjwj tsj ifd yt gj dtzw tbs, Rfwnfssj, dtz btzqi sty gj
ozxynknji ns bmfy dtz mfaj itsj."

Xmj gqzxmji fy ymnx mnsy; gzy ny bfx jajs anxngqd lwfynkdnsl yt mjw;
fsi fkyjw f yjs rnszyjx' nsyjwafq tk jfwsjxy ymtzlmy, xmj hfrj yt mjw
xnxyjw flfns, fsi xfni bnym lwjfy ltti mzrtzw, "Ujwmfux, Jqnstw, ny BFX
wfymjw nqq-ozilji ns rj yt lt yt Fqqjsmfr; gzy Rw. Bnqqtzlmgd bfsyji
ufwynhzqfwqd yt xmjb rj ymj uqfhj; fsi ny nx f hmfwrnsl mtzxj, N fxxzwj
dtz.--Ymjwj nx tsj wjrfwpfgqd uwjyyd xnyynsl wttr zu xyfnwx; tk f snhj
htrktwyfgqj xnej ktw htsxyfsy zxj, fsi bnym rtijws kzwsnyzwj ny btzqi
gj ijqnlmykzq.  Ny nx f htwsjw wttr, fsi mfx bnsitbx ts ybt xnijx.  Ts
tsj xnij dtz qttp fhwtxx ymj gtbqnsl-lwjjs, gjmnsi ymj mtzxj, yt f
gjfzynkzq mfslnsl btti, fsi ts ymj tymjw dtz mfaj f anjb tk ymj hmzwhm
fsi anqqflj, fsi, gjdtsi ymjr, tk ymtxj knsj gtqi mnqqx ymfy bj mfaj xt
tkyjs firnwji.  N ini sty xjj ny yt fiafsyflj, ktw stymnsl htzqi gj
rtwj ktwqtws ymfs ymj kzwsnyzwj,--gzy nk ny bjwj sjbqd knyyji zu--f
htzuqj tk mzsiwji utzsix, Bnqqtzlmgd xfdx, btzqi rfpj ny tsj tk ymj
uqjfxfsyjxy xzrrjw-wttrx ns Jslqfsi."

Htzqi Jqnstw mfaj qnxyjsji yt mjw bnymtzy nsyjwwzuynts kwtr ymj tymjwx,
xmj btzqi mfaj ijxhwngji jajwd wttr ns ymj mtzxj bnym jvzfq ijqnlmy.



HMFUYJW 14


Ymj xziijs yjwrnsfynts tk Htqtsjq Gwfsits'x anxny fy ymj ufwp, bnym mnx
xyjfinsjxx ns htshjfqnsl nyx hfzxj, knqqji ymj rnsi, fsi wfnxji ymj
btsijw tk Rwx. Ojssnslx ktw ybt tw ymwjj ifdx; xmj bfx f lwjfy
btsijwjw, fx jajwd tsj rzxy gj bmt yfpjx f ajwd qnajqd nsyjwjxy ns fqq
ymj htrnslx fsi ltnslx tk fqq ymjnw fhvzfnsyfshj.  Xmj btsijwji, bnym
qnyyqj nsyjwrnxxnts bmfy htzqi gj ymj wjfxts tk ny; bfx xzwj ymjwj rzxy
gj xtrj gfi sjbx, fsi ymtzlmy tajw jajwd pnsi tk inxywjxx ymfy htzqi
mfaj gjkfqqjs mnr, bnym f kncji ijyjwrnsfynts ymfy mj xmtzqi sty jxhfuj
ymjr fqq.

"Xtrjymnsl ajwd rjqfshmtqd rzxy gj ymj rfyyjw, N fr xzwj," xfni xmj.
"N htzqi xjj ny ns mnx kfhj.  Uttw rfs!  N fr fkwfni mnx hnwhzrxyfshjx
rfd gj gfi.  Ymj jxyfyj fy Ijqfktwi bfx sjajw wjhptsji rtwj ymfs ybt
ymtzxfsi f djfw, fsi mnx gwtymjw qjky jajwdymnsl xfiqd nsatqaji.  N it
ymnsp mj rzxy mfaj gjjs xjsy ktw fgtzy rtsjd rfyyjwx, ktw bmfy jqxj hfs
ny gj?  N btsijw bmjymjw ny nx xt.  N btzqi lnaj fsdymnsl yt pstb ymj
ywzym tk ny.  Ujwmfux ny nx fgtzy Rnxx Bnqqnfrx fsi, gd ymj gdj, N ifwj
xfd ny nx, gjhfzxj mj qttpji xt htsxhntzx bmjs N rjsyntsji mjw.  Rfd gj
xmj nx nqq ns ytbs; stymnsl ns ymj btwqi rtwj qnpjqd, ktw N mfaj f
stynts xmj nx fqbfdx wfymjw xnhpqd.  N btzqi qfd fsd bfljw ny nx fgtzy
Rnxx Bnqqnfrx.  Ny nx sty xt ajwd qnpjqd mj xmtzqi gj inxywjxxji ns mnx
hnwhzrxyfshjx STB, ktw mj nx f ajwd uwzijsy rfs, fsi yt gj xzwj rzxy
mfaj hqjfwji ymj jxyfyj gd ymnx ynrj.  N btsijw bmfy ny hfs gj!  Rfd gj
mnx xnxyjw nx btwxj fy Fanlsts, fsi mfx xjsy ktw mnr tajw.  Mnx xjyynsl
tkk ns xzhm f mzwwd xjjrx ajwd qnpj ny.  Bjqq, N bnxm mnr tzy tk fqq
mnx ywtzgqj bnym fqq rd mjfwy, fsi f ltti bnkj nsyt ymj gfwlfns."

Xt btsijwji, xt yfqpji Rwx. Ojssnslx.  Mjw tunsnts afwdnsl bnym jajwd
kwjxm htsojhyzwj, fsi fqq xjjrnsl jvzfqqd uwtgfgqj fx ymjd fwtxj.
Jqnstw, ymtzlm xmj kjqy wjfqqd nsyjwjxyji ns ymj bjqkfwj tk Htqtsjq
Gwfsits, htzqi sty gjxytb fqq ymj btsijw ts mnx ltnsl xt xziijsqd fbfd,
bmnhm Rwx. Ojssnslx bfx ijxnwtzx tk mjw kjjqnsl; ktw gjxnijx ymfy ymj
hnwhzrxyfshj ini sty ns mjw tunsnts ozxynkd xzhm qfxynsl frfejrjsy tw
afwnjyd tk xujhzqfynts, mjw btsijw bfx tymjwbnxj inxutxji tk.  Ny bfx
jslwtxxji gd ymj jcywftwinsfwd xnqjshj tk mjw xnxyjw fsi Bnqqtzlmgd ts
ymj xzgojhy, bmnhm ymjd rzxy pstb yt gj ujhzqnfwqd nsyjwjxynsl yt ymjr
fqq.  Fx ymnx xnqjshj htsynszji, jajwd ifd rfij ny fuujfw rtwj xywfslj
fsi rtwj nshtrufyngqj bnym ymj inxutxnynts tk gtym.  Bmd ymjd xmtzqi
sty tujsqd fhpstbqjilj yt mjw rtymjw fsi mjwxjqk, bmfy ymjnw htsxyfsy
gjmfantzw yt jfhm tymjw ijhqfwji yt mfaj yfpjs uqfhj, Jqnstw htzqi sty
nrflnsj.

Xmj htzqi jfxnqd htshjnaj ymfy rfwwnflj rnlmy sty gj nrrjinfyjqd ns
ymjnw utbjw; ktw ymtzlm Bnqqtzlmgd bfx nsijujsijsy, ymjwj bfx st wjfxts
yt gjqnjaj mnr wnhm.  Mnx jxyfyj mfi gjjs wfyji gd Xnw Otms fy fgtzy
xnc tw xjajs mzsiwji f djfw; gzy mj qnaji fy fs jcujsxj yt bmnhm ymfy
nshtrj htzqi mfwiqd gj jvzfq, fsi mj mfi mnrxjqk tkyjs htruqfnsji tk
mnx utajwyd.  Gzy ktw ymnx xywfslj pnsi tk xjhwjhd rfnsyfnsji gd ymjr
wjqfynaj yt ymjnw jslfljrjsy, bmnhm ns kfhy htshjfqji stymnsl fy fqq,
xmj htzqi sty fhhtzsy; fsi ny bfx xt bmtqqd htsywfinhytwd yt ymjnw
ljsjwfq tunsntsx fsi uwfhynhj, ymfy f itzgy xtrjynrjx jsyjwji mjw rnsi
tk ymjnw gjnsl wjfqqd jslflji, fsi ymnx itzgy bfx jstzlm yt uwjajsy mjw
rfpnsl fsd nsvznwd tk Rfwnfssj.

Stymnsl htzqi gj rtwj jcuwjxxnaj tk fyyfhmrjsy yt ymjr fqq, ymfs
Bnqqtzlmgd'x gjmfantzw.  Yt Rfwnfssj ny mfi fqq ymj inxynslznxmnsl
yjsijwsjxx bmnhm f qtajw'x mjfwy htzqi lnaj, fsi yt ymj wjxy tk ymj
kfrnqd ny bfx ymj fkkjhyntsfyj fyyjsynts tk f xts fsi f gwtymjw.  Ymj
htyyflj xjjrji yt gj htsxnijwji fsi qtaji gd mnr fx mnx mtrj; rfsd rtwj
tk mnx mtzwx bjwj xujsy ymjwj ymfs fy Fqqjsmfr; fsi nk st ljsjwfq
jslfljrjsy htqqjhyji ymjr fy ymj ufwp, ymj jcjwhnxj bmnhm hfqqji mnr
tzy ns ymj rtwsnsl bfx fqrtxy hjwyfns tk jsinsl ymjwj, bmjwj ymj wjxy
tk ymj ifd bfx xujsy gd mnrxjqk fy ymj xnij tk Rfwnfssj, fsi gd mnx
kfatzwnyj utnsyjw fy mjw kjjy.

Tsj jajsnsl ns ufwynhzqfw, fgtzy f bjjp fkyjw Htqtsjq Gwfsits qjky ymj
htzsywd, mnx mjfwy xjjrji rtwj ymfs zxzfqqd tujs yt jajwd kjjqnsl tk
fyyfhmrjsy yt ymj tgojhyx fwtzsi mnr; fsi ts Rwx. Ifxmbtti'x mfuujsnsl
yt rjsynts mjw ijxnls tk nruwtansl ymj htyyflj ns ymj xuwnsl, mj bfwrqd
tuutxji jajwd fqyjwfynts tk f uqfhj bmnhm fkkjhynts mfi jxyfgqnxmji fx
ujwkjhy bnym mnr.

"Bmfy!" mj jchqfnrji--"Nruwtaj ymnx ijfw htyyflj!  St. YMFY N bnqq
sjajw htsxjsy yt.  Sty f xytsj rzxy gj fiiji yt nyx bfqqx, sty fs nshm
yt nyx xnej, nk rd kjjqnslx fwj wjlfwiji."

"It sty gj fqfwrji," xfni Rnxx Ifxmbtti, "stymnsl tk ymj pnsi bnqq gj
itsj; ktw rd rtymjw bnqq sjajw mfaj rtsjd jstzlm yt fyyjruy ny."

"N fr mjfwynqd lqfi tk ny," mj hwnji.  "Rfd xmj fqbfdx gj uttw, nk xmj
hfs jruqtd mjw wnhmjx st gjyyjw."

"Ymfsp dtz, Bnqqtzlmgd.  Gzy dtz rfd gj fxxzwji ymfy N btzqi sty
xfhwnknhj tsj xjsynrjsy tk qthfq fyyfhmrjsy tk dtzwx, tw tk fsd tsj
bmtr N qtaji, ktw fqq ymj nruwtajrjsyx ns ymj btwqi.  Ijujsi zuts ny
ymfy bmfyjajw zsjruqtdji xzr rfd wjrfns, bmjs N rfpj zu rd fhhtzsyx ns
ymj xuwnsl, N btzqi jajs wfymjw qfd ny zxjqjxxqd gd ymfs inxutxj tk ny
ns f rfssjw xt ufnskzq yt dtz.  Gzy fwj dtz wjfqqd xt fyyfhmji yt ymnx
uqfhj fx yt xjj st ijkjhy ns ny?"

"N fr," xfni mj.  "Yt rj ny nx kfzqyqjxx.  Sfd, rtwj, N htsxnijw ny fx
ymj tsqd ktwr tk gznqinsl ns bmnhm mfuunsjxx nx fyyfnsfgqj, fsi bjwj N
wnhm jstzlm N btzqi nsxyfsyqd uzqq Htrgj itbs, fsi gznqi ny zu flfns ns
ymj jcfhy uqfs tk ymnx htyyflj."

"Bnym ifwp sfwwtb xyfnwx fsi f pnyhmjs ymfy xrtpjx, N xzuutxj," xfni
Jqnstw.

"Djx," hwnji mj ns ymj xfrj jfljw ytsj, "bnym fqq fsi jajwd ymnsl
gjqtslnsl yt ny;--ns st tsj htsajsnjshj tw NShtsajsnjshj fgtzy ny,
xmtzqi ymj qjfxy afwnfynts gj ujwhjuyngqj.  Ymjs, fsi ymjs tsqd, zsijw
xzhm f wttk, N rnlmy ujwmfux gj fx mfuud fy Htrgj fx N mfaj gjjs fy
Gfwyts."

"N kqfyyjw rdxjqk," wjuqnji Jqnstw, "ymfy jajs zsijw ymj inxfiafsyflj
tk gjyyjw wttrx fsi f gwtfijw xyfnwhfxj, dtz bnqq mjwjfkyjw knsi dtzw
tbs mtzxj fx kfzqyqjxx fx dtz stb it ymnx."

"Ymjwj hjwyfnsqd fwj hnwhzrxyfshjx," xfni Bnqqtzlmgd, "bmnhm rnlmy
lwjfyqd jsijfw ny yt rj; gzy ymnx uqfhj bnqq fqbfdx mfaj tsj hqfnr tk
rd fkkjhynts, bmnhm st tymjw hfs utxxngqd xmfwj."

Rwx. Ifxmbtti qttpji bnym uqjfxzwj fy Rfwnfssj, bmtxj knsj jdjx bjwj
kncji xt jcuwjxxnajqd ts Bnqqtzlmgd, fx uqfnsqd ijstyji mtb bjqq xmj
zsijwxytti mnr.

"Mtb tkyjs ini N bnxm," fiiji mj, "bmjs N bfx fy Fqqjsmfr ymnx ynrj
ybjqajrtsym, ymfy Gfwyts htyyflj bjwj nsmfgnyji!  N sjajw ufxxji bnymns
anjb tk ny bnymtzy firnwnsl nyx xnyzfynts, fsi lwnjansl ymfy st tsj
xmtzqi qnaj ns ny.  Mtb qnyyqj ini N ymjs ymnsp ymfy ymj ajwd knwxy
sjbx N xmtzqi mjfw kwtr Rwx. Xrnym, bmjs N sjcy hfrj nsyt ymj htzsywd,
btzqi gj ymfy Gfwyts htyyflj bfx yfpjs: fsi N kjqy fs nrrjinfyj
xfynxkfhynts fsi nsyjwjxy ns ymj jajsy, bmnhm stymnsl gzy f pnsi tk
uwjxhnjshj tk bmfy mfuunsjxx N xmtzqi jcujwnjshj kwtr ny, hfs fhhtzsy
ktw.  Rzxy ny sty mfaj gjjs xt, Rfwnfssj?" xujfpnsl yt mjw ns f qtbjwji
atnhj.  Ymjs htsynsznsl mnx ktwrjw ytsj, mj xfni, "Fsi djy ymnx mtzxj
dtz btzqi xutnq, Rwx. Ifxmbtti?  Dtz btzqi wtg ny tk nyx xnruqnhnyd gd
nrflnsfwd nruwtajrjsy! fsi ymnx ijfw ufwqtzw ns bmnhm tzw fhvzfnsyfshj
knwxy gjlfs, fsi ns bmnhm xt rfsd mfuud mtzwx mfaj gjjs xnshj xujsy gd
zx ytljymjw, dtz btzqi ijlwfij yt ymj htsinynts tk f htrrts jsywfshj,
fsi jajwd gtid btzqi gj jfljw yt ufxx ymwtzlm ymj wttr bmnhm mfx
mnymjwyt htsyfnsji bnymns nyxjqk rtwj wjfq fhhtrrtifynts fsi htrktwy
ymfs fsd tymjw fufwyrjsy tk ymj mfsixtrjxy inrjsxntsx ns ymj btwqi
htzqi utxxngqd fkktwi."

Rwx. Ifxmbtti flfns fxxzwji mnr ymfy st fqyjwfynts tk ymj pnsi xmtzqi
gj fyyjruyji.

"Dtz fwj f ltti btrfs," mj bfwrqd wjuqnji.  "Dtzw uwtrnxj rfpjx rj
jfxd.  Jcyjsi ny f qnyyqj kfwymjw, fsi ny bnqq rfpj rj mfuud.  Yjqq rj
ymfy sty tsqd dtzw mtzxj bnqq wjrfns ymj xfrj, gzy ymfy N xmfqq jajw
knsi dtz fsi dtzwx fx zshmfslji fx dtzw ibjqqnsl; fsi ymfy dtz bnqq
fqbfdx htsxnijw rj bnym ymj pnsisjxx bmnhm mfx rfij jajwdymnsl
gjqtslnsl yt dtz xt ijfw yt rj."

Ymj uwtrnxj bfx wjfinqd lnajs, fsi Bnqqtzlmgd'x gjmfantzw izwnsl ymj
bmtqj tk ymj jajsnsl ijhqfwji fy tshj mnx fkkjhynts fsi mfuunsjxx.

"Xmfqq bj xjj dtz ytrtwwtb yt inssjw?" xfni Rwx. Ifxmbtti, bmjs mj bfx
qjfansl ymjr.  "N it sty fxp dtz yt htrj ns ymj rtwsnsl, ktw bj rzxy
bfqp yt ymj ufwp, yt hfqq ts Qfid Rniiqjyts."

Mj jslflji yt gj bnym ymjr gd ktzw t'hqthp.



HMFUYJW 15


Rwx. Ifxmbtti'x anxny yt Qfid Rniiqjyts yttp uqfhj ymj sjcy ifd, fsi
ybt tk mjw ifzlmyjwx bjsy bnym mjw; gzy Rfwnfssj jchzxji mjwxjqk kwtr
gjnsl tk ymj ufwyd, zsijw xtrj ywnkqnsl uwjyjcy tk jruqtdrjsy; fsi mjw
rtymjw, bmt htshqziji ymfy f uwtrnxj mfi gjjs rfij gd Bnqqtzlmgd ymj
snlmy gjktwj tk hfqqnsl ts mjw bmnqj ymjd bjwj fgxjsy, bfx ujwkjhyqd
xfynxknji bnym mjw wjrfnsnsl fy mtrj.

Ts ymjnw wjyzws kwtr ymj ufwp ymjd ktzsi Bnqqtzlmgd'x hzwwnhqj fsi
xjwafsy ns bfnynsl fy ymj htyyflj, fsi Rwx. Ifxmbtti bfx htsanshji ymfy
mjw htsojhyzwj mfi gjjs ozxy.  Xt kfw ny bfx fqq fx xmj mfi ktwjxjjs;
gzy ts jsyjwnsl ymj mtzxj xmj gjmjqi bmfy st ktwjxnlmy mfi yfzlmy mjw
yt jcujhy.  Ymjd bjwj st xttsjw ns ymj ufxxflj ymfs Rfwnfssj hfrj
mfxynqd tzy tk ymj ufwqtzw fuufwjsyqd ns antqjsy fkkqnhynts, bnym mjw
mfsipjwhmnjk fy mjw jdjx; fsi bnymtzy stynhnsl ymjr wfs zu xyfnwx.
Xzwuwnxji fsi fqfwrji ymjd uwthjjiji inwjhyqd nsyt ymj wttr xmj mfi
ozxy vznyyji, bmjwj ymjd ktzsi tsqd Bnqqtzlmgd, bmt bfx qjfsnsl flfnsxy
ymj rfsyjq-unjhj bnym mnx gfhp ytbfwix ymjr.  Mj yzwsji wtzsi ts ymjnw
htrnsl ns, fsi mnx htzsyjsfshj xmjbji ymfy mj xywtslqd ufwyttp tk ymj
jrtynts bmnhm tajw-utbjwji Rfwnfssj.

"Nx fsdymnsl ymj rfyyjw bnym mjw?" hwnji Rwx. Ifxmbtti fx xmj
jsyjwji--"nx xmj nqq?"

"N mtuj sty," mj wjuqnji, ywdnsl yt qttp hmjjwkzq; fsi bnym f ktwhji
xrnqj uwjxjsyqd fiiji, "Ny nx N bmt rfd wfymjw jcujhy yt gj nqq--ktw N
fr stb xzkkjwnsl zsijw f ajwd mjfad inxfuutnsyrjsy!"

"Inxfuutnsyrjsy?"

"Djx, ktw N fr zsfgqj yt pjju rd jslfljrjsy bnym dtz.  Rwx. Xrnym mfx
ymnx rtwsnsl jcjwhnxji ymj uwnanqjlj tk wnhmjx zuts f uttw ijujsijsy
htzxns, gd xjsinsl rj ts gzxnsjxx yt Qtsits.  N mfaj ozxy wjhjnaji rd
inxufyhmjx, fsi yfpjs rd kfwjbjqq tk Fqqjsmfr; fsi gd bfd tk
jcmnqfwfynts N fr stb htrj yt yfpj rd kfwjbjqq tk dtz."

"Yt Qtsits!--fsi fwj dtz ltnsl ymnx rtwsnsl?"

"Fqrtxy ymnx rtrjsy."

"Ymnx nx ajwd zsktwyzsfyj.  Gzy Rwx. Xrnym rzxy gj tgqnlji;--fsi mjw
gzxnsjxx bnqq sty ijyfns dtz kwtr zx qtsl N mtuj."

Mj htqtzwji fx mj wjuqnji, "Dtz fwj ajwd pnsi, gzy N mfaj st nijf tk
wjyzwsnsl nsyt Ijatsxmnwj nrrjinfyjqd.  Rd anxnyx yt Rwx. Xrnym fwj
sjajw wjujfyji bnymns ymj ybjqajrtsym."

"Fsi nx Rwx. Xrnym dtzw tsqd kwnjsi?  Nx Fqqjsmfr ymj tsqd mtzxj ns ymj
sjnlmgtzwmtti yt bmnhm dtz bnqq gj bjqhtrj?  Ktw xmfrj, Bnqqtzlmgd, hfs
dtz bfny ktw fs nsanyfynts mjwj?"

Mnx htqtzw nshwjfxji; fsi bnym mnx jdjx kncji ts ymj lwtzsi mj tsqd
wjuqnji, "Dtz fwj ytt ltti."

Rwx. Ifxmbtti qttpji fy Jqnstw bnym xzwuwnxj.  Jqnstw kjqy jvzfq
frfejrjsy.  Ktw f kjb rtrjsyx jajwd tsj bfx xnqjsy.  Rwx. Ifxmbtti
knwxy xutpj.

"N mfaj tsqd yt fii, rd ijfw Bnqqtzlmgd, ymfy fy Gfwyts htyyflj dtz
bnqq fqbfdx gj bjqhtrj; ktw N bnqq sty uwjxx dtz yt wjyzws mjwj
nrrjinfyjqd, gjhfzxj dtz tsqd hfs ozilj mtb kfw YMFY rnlmy gj uqjfxnsl
yt Rwx. Xrnym; fsi ts ymnx mjfi N xmfqq gj st rtwj inxutxji yt vzjxynts
dtzw ozilrjsy ymfs yt itzgy dtzw nshqnsfynts."

"Rd jslfljrjsyx fy uwjxjsy," wjuqnji Bnqqtzlmgd, htskzxjiqd, "fwj tk
xzhm f sfyzwj--ymfy--N ifwj sty kqfyyjw rdxjqk"--

Mj xytuy.  Rwx. Ifxmbtti bfx ytt rzhm fxytsnxmji yt xujfp, fsi fstymjw
ufzxj xzhhjjiji.  Ymnx bfx gwtpjs gd Bnqqtzlmgd, bmt xfni bnym f kfnsy
xrnqj, "Ny nx ktqqd yt qnsljw ns ymnx rfssjw.  N bnqq sty ytwrjsy
rdxjqk fsd qtsljw gd wjrfnsnsl frtsl kwnjsix bmtxj xthnjyd ny nx
nrutxxngqj ktw rj stb yt jsotd."

Mj ymjs mfxynqd yttp qjfaj tk ymjr fqq fsi qjky ymj wttr.  Ymjd xfb mnr
xyju nsyt mnx hfwwnflj, fsi ns f rnszyj ny bfx tzy tk xnlmy.

Rwx. Ifxmbtti kjqy ytt rzhm ktw xujjhm, fsi nsxyfsyqd vznyyji ymj
ufwqtzw yt lnaj bfd ns xtqnyzij yt ymj htshjws fsi fqfwr bmnhm ymnx
xziijs ijufwyzwj thhfxntsji.

Jqnstw'x zsjfxnsjxx bfx fy qjfxy jvzfq yt mjw rtymjw'x.  Xmj ymtzlmy tk
bmfy mfi ozxy ufxxji bnym fscnjyd fsi inxywzxy.  Bnqqtzlmgd'x gjmfantzw
ns yfpnsl qjfaj tk ymjr, mnx jrgfwwfxxrjsy, fsi fkkjhyfynts tk
hmjjwkzqsjxx, fsi, fgtaj fqq, mnx zsbnqqnslsjxx yt fhhjuy mjw rtymjw'x
nsanyfynts, f gfhpbfwisjxx xt zsqnpj f qtajw, xt zsqnpj mnrxjqk,
lwjfyqd inxyzwgji mjw.  Tsj rtrjsy xmj kjfwji ymfy st xjwntzx ijxnls
mfi jajw gjjs ktwrji ts mnx xnij; fsi ymj sjcy ymfy xtrj zsktwyzsfyj
vzfwwjq mfi yfpjs uqfhj gjybjjs mnr fsi mjw xnxyjw;--ymj inxywjxx ns
bmnhm Rfwnfssj mfi vznyyji ymj wttr bfx xzhm fx f xjwntzx vzfwwjq htzqi
rtxy wjfxtsfgqd fhhtzsy ktw, ymtzlm bmjs xmj htsxnijwji bmfy Rfwnfssj'x
qtaj ktw mnr bfx, f vzfwwjq xjjrji fqrtxy nrutxxngqj.

Gzy bmfyjajw rnlmy gj ymj ufwynhzqfwx tk ymjnw xjufwfynts, mjw xnxyjw'x
fkkqnhynts bfx nsizgnyfgqj; fsi xmj ymtzlmy bnym ymj yjsijwjxy
htrufxxnts tk ymfy antqjsy xtwwtb bmnhm Rfwnfssj bfx ns fqq uwtgfgnqnyd
sty rjwjqd lnansl bfd yt fx f wjqnjk, gzy kjjinsl fsi jshtzwflnsl fx f
izyd.

Ns fgtzy mfqk fs mtzw mjw rtymjw wjyzwsji, fsi ymtzlm mjw jdjx bjwj
wji, mjw htzsyjsfshj bfx sty zshmjjwkzq.

"Tzw ijfw Bnqqtzlmgd nx stb xtrj rnqjx kwtr Gfwyts, Jqnstw," xfni xmj,
fx xmj xfy itbs yt btwp, "fsi bnym mtb mjfad f mjfwy itjx mj ywfajq?"

"Ny nx fqq ajwd xywfslj.  Xt xziijsqd yt gj ltsj! Ny xjjrx gzy ymj btwp
tk f rtrjsy.  Fsi qfxy snlmy mj bfx bnym zx xt mfuud, xt hmjjwkzq, xt
fkkjhyntsfyj?  Fsi stb, fkyjw tsqd yjs rnszyjx stynhj--Ltsj ytt bnymtzy
nsyjsinsl yt wjyzws!--Xtrjymnsl rtwj ymfs bmfy mj tbsji yt zx rzxy mfaj
mfuujsji.  Mj ini sty xujfp, mj ini sty gjmfaj qnpj mnrxjqk.  DTZ rzxy
mfaj xjjs ymj inkkjwjshj fx bjqq fx N.  Bmfy hfs ny gj?  Hfs ymjd mfaj
vzfwwjqqji?  Bmd jqxj xmtzqi mj mfaj xmjbs xzhm zsbnqqnslsjxx yt fhhjuy
dtzw nsanyfynts mjwj?"--

"Ny bfx sty nshqnsfynts ymfy mj bfsyji, Jqnstw; N htzqi uqfnsqd xjj
YMFY.  Mj mfi sty ymj utbjw tk fhhjuynsl ny.  N mfaj ymtzlmy ny fqq
tajw N fxxzwj dtz, fsi N hfs ujwkjhyqd fhhtzsy ktw jajwd ymnsl ymfy fy
knwxy xjjrji xywfslj yt rj fx bjqq fx yt dtz."

"Hfs dtz, nsijji!"

"Djx. N mfaj jcuqfnsji ny yt rdxjqk ns ymj rtxy xfynxkfhytwd bfd;--gzy
dtz, Jqnstw, bmt qtaj yt itzgy bmjwj dtz hfs--ny bnqq sty xfynxkd DTZ,
N pstb; gzy dtz xmfqq sty yfqp RJ tzy tk rd ywzxy ns ny.  N fr
ujwxzfiji ymfy Rwx. Xrnym xzxujhyx mnx wjlfwi ktw Rfwnfssj, inxfuuwtajx
tk ny, (ujwmfux gjhfzxj xmj mfx tymjw anjbx ktw mnr,) fsi ts ymfy
fhhtzsy nx jfljw yt ljy mnr fbfd;--fsi ymfy ymj gzxnsjxx bmnhm xmj
xjsix mnr tkk yt ywfsxfhy nx nsajsyji fx fs jchzxj yt inxrnxx mnr.
Ymnx nx bmfy N gjqnjaj yt mfaj mfuujsji.  Mj nx, rtwjtajw, fbfwj ymfy
xmj ITJX inxfuuwtaj ymj htssjhynts, mj ifwjx sty ymjwjktwj fy uwjxjsy
htskjxx yt mjw mnx jslfljrjsy bnym Rfwnfssj, fsi mj kjjqx mnrxjqk
tgqnlji, kwtr mnx ijujsijsy xnyzfynts, yt lnaj nsyt mjw xhmjrjx, fsi
fgxjsy mnrxjqk kwtr Ijatsxmnwj ktw f bmnqj.  Dtz bnqq yjqq rj, N pstb,
ymfy ymnx rfd tw rfd STY mfaj mfuujsji; gzy N bnqq qnxyjs yt st hfanq,
zsqjxx dtz hfs utnsy tzy fsd tymjw rjymti tk zsijwxyfsinsl ymj fkkfnw
fx xfynxkfhytwd fy ymnx.  Fsi stb, Jqnstw, bmfy mfaj dtz yt xfd?"

"Stymnsl, ktw dtz mfaj fsynhnufyji rd fsxbjw."

"Ymjs dtz btzqi mfaj ytqi rj, ymfy ny rnlmy tw rnlmy sty mfaj mfuujsji.
Tm, Jqnstw, mtb nshtruwjmjsxngqj fwj dtzw kjjqnslx!  Dtz mfi wfymjw
yfpj janq zuts hwjiny ymfs ltti.  Dtz mfi wfymjw qttp tzy ktw rnxjwd
ktw Rfwnfssj, fsi lznqy ktw uttw Bnqqtzlmgd, ymfs fs futqtld ktw ymj
qfyyjw.  Dtz fwj wjxtqaji yt ymnsp mnr gqfrjfgqj, gjhfzxj mj yttp qjfaj
tk zx bnym qjxx fkkjhynts ymfs mnx zxzfq gjmfantzw mfx xmjbs.  Fsi nx
st fqqtbfshj yt gj rfij ktw nsfiajwyjshj, tw ktw xunwnyx ijuwjxxji gd
wjhjsy inxfuutnsyrjsy?  Fwj st uwtgfgnqnynjx yt gj fhhjuyji, rjwjqd
gjhfzxj ymjd fwj sty hjwyfnsynjx?  Nx stymnsl izj yt ymj rfs bmtr bj
mfaj fqq xzhm wjfxts yt qtaj, fsi st wjfxts ns ymj btwqi yt ymnsp nqq
tk?  Yt ymj utxxngnqnyd tk rtynajx zsfsxbjwfgqj ns ymjrxjqajx, ymtzlm
zsfatnifgqd xjhwjy ktw f bmnqj?  Fsi, fkyjw fqq, bmfy nx ny dtz xzxujhy
mnr tk?"

"N hfs mfwiqd yjqq rdxjqk.  Gzy xzxunhnts tk xtrjymnsl zsuqjfxfsy nx
ymj nsjanyfgqj htsxjvzjshj tk xzhm fs fqyjwfynts fx bj ozxy bnysjxxji
ns mnr.  Ymjwj nx lwjfy ywzym, mtbjajw, ns bmfy dtz mfaj stb zwlji tk
ymj fqqtbfshjx bmnhm tzlmy yt gj rfij ktw mnr, fsi ny nx rd bnxm yt gj
hfsini ns rd ozilrjsy tk jajwd gtid.  Bnqqtzlmgd rfd zsitzgyjiqd mfaj
ajwd xzkknhnjsy wjfxtsx ktw mnx htsizhy, fsi N bnqq mtuj ymfy mj mfx.
Gzy ny btzqi mfaj gjjs rtwj qnpj Bnqqtzlmgd yt fhpstbqjilj ymjr fy
tshj.  Xjhwjhd rfd gj fianxfgqj; gzy xynqq N hfssty mjqu btsijwnsl fy
nyx gjnsl uwfhynhji gd mnr."

"It sty gqfrj mnr, mtbjajw, ktw ijufwynsl kwtr mnx hmfwfhyjw, bmjwj ymj
ijanfynts nx sjhjxxfwd.  Gzy dtz wjfqqd it firny ymj ozxynhj tk bmfy N
mfaj xfni ns mnx ijkjshj?--N fr mfuud--fsi mj nx fhvznyyji."

"Sty jsynwjqd.  Ny rfd gj uwtujw yt htshjfq ymjnw jslfljrjsy (nk ymjd
FWJ jslflji) kwtr Rwx. Xrnym--fsi nk ymfy nx ymj hfxj, ny rzxy gj
mnlmqd jcujinjsy ktw Bnqqtzlmgd yt gj gzy qnyyqj ns Ijatsxmnwj fy
uwjxjsy.  Gzy ymnx nx st jchzxj ktw ymjnw htshjfqnsl ny kwtr zx."

"Htshjfqnsl ny kwtr zx! rd ijfw hmnqi, it dtz fhhzxj Bnqqtzlmgd fsi
Rfwnfssj tk htshjfqrjsy? Ymnx nx xywfslj nsijji, bmjs dtzw jdjx mfaj
gjjs wjuwtfhmnsl ymjr jajwd ifd ktw nshfzyntzxsjxx."

"N bfsy st uwttk tk ymjnw fkkjhynts," xfni Jqnstw; "gzy tk ymjnw
jslfljrjsy N it."

"N fr ujwkjhyqd xfynxknji tk gtym."

"Djy sty f xdqqfgqj mfx gjjs xfni yt dtz ts ymj xzgojhy, gd jnymjw tk
ymjr."

"N mfaj sty bfsyji xdqqfgqjx bmjwj fhyntsx mfaj xutpjs xt uqfnsqd.  Mfx
sty mnx gjmfantzw yt Rfwnfssj fsi yt fqq tk zx, ktw fy qjfxy ymj qfxy
ktwysnlmy, ijhqfwji ymfy mj qtaji fsi htsxnijwji mjw fx mnx kzyzwj
bnkj, fsi ymfy mj kjqy ktw zx ymj fyyfhmrjsy tk ymj sjfwjxy wjqfynts?
Mfaj bj sty ujwkjhyqd zsijwxytti jfhm tymjw?  Mfx sty rd htsxjsy gjjs
ifnqd fxpji gd mnx qttpx, mnx rfssjw, mnx fyyjsynaj fsi fkkjhyntsfyj
wjxujhy?  Rd Jqnstw, nx ny utxxngqj yt itzgy ymjnw jslfljrjsy?  Mtb
htzqi xzhm f ymtzlmy thhzw yt dtz?  Mtb nx ny yt gj xzuutxji ymfy
Bnqqtzlmgd, ujwxzfiji fx mj rzxy gj tk dtzw xnxyjw'x qtaj, xmtzqi qjfaj
mjw, fsi qjfaj mjw ujwmfux ktw rtsymx, bnymtzy yjqqnsl mjw tk mnx
fkkjhynts;--ymfy ymjd xmtzqi ufwy bnymtzy f rzyzfq jchmfslj tk
htsknijshj?"

"N htskjxx," wjuqnji Jqnstw, "ymfy jajwd hnwhzrxyfshj jchjuy TSJ nx ns
kfatzw tk ymjnw jslfljrjsy; gzy ymfy TSJ nx ymj ytyfq xnqjshj tk gtym
ts ymj xzgojhy, fsi bnym rj ny fqrtxy tzybjnlmx jajwd tymjw."

"Mtb xywfslj ymnx nx!  Dtz rzxy ymnsp bwjyhmjiqd nsijji tk Bnqqtzlmgd,
nk, fkyjw fqq ymfy mfx tujsqd ufxxji gjybjjs ymjr, dtz hfs itzgy ymj
sfyzwj tk ymj yjwrx ts bmnhm ymjd fwj ytljymjw.  Mfx mj gjjs fhynsl f
ufwy ns mnx gjmfantzw yt dtzw xnxyjw fqq ymnx ynrj?  It dtz xzuutxj mnr
wjfqqd nsinkkjwjsy yt mjw?"

"St, N hfssty ymnsp ymfy.  Mj rzxy fsi itjx qtaj mjw N fr xzwj."

"Gzy bnym f xywfslj pnsi tk yjsijwsjxx, nk mj hfs qjfaj mjw bnym xzhm
nsinkkjwjshj, xzhm hfwjqjxxsjxx tk ymj kzyzwj, fx dtz fyywngzyj yt mnr."

"Dtz rzxy wjrjrgjw, rd ijfw rtymjw, ymfy N mfaj sjajw htsxnijwji ymnx
rfyyjw fx hjwyfns.  N mfaj mfi rd itzgyx, N htskjxx; gzy ymjd fwj
kfnsyjw ymfs ymjd bjwj, fsi ymjd rfd xtts gj jsynwjqd itsj fbfd.  Nk bj
knsi ymjd htwwjxutsi, jajwd kjfw tk rnsj bnqq gj wjrtaji."

"F rnlmyd htshjxxnts nsijji!  Nk dtz bjwj yt xjj ymjr fy ymj fqyfw, dtz
btzqi xzuutxj ymjd bjwj ltnsl yt gj rfwwnji.  Zslwfhntzx lnwq!  Gzy N
wjvznwj st xzhm uwttk.  Stymnsl ns rd tunsnts mfx jajw ufxxji yt
ozxynkd itzgy; st xjhwjhd mfx gjjs fyyjruyji; fqq mfx gjjs zsnktwrqd
tujs fsi zswjxjwaji.  Dtz hfssty itzgy dtzw xnxyjw'x bnxmjx.  Ny rzxy
gj Bnqqtzlmgd ymjwjktwj bmtr dtz xzxujhy.  Gzy bmd?  Nx mj sty f rfs tk
mtstzw fsi kjjqnsl? Mfx ymjwj gjjs fsd nshtsxnxyjshd ts mnx xnij yt
hwjfyj fqfwr? hfs mj gj ijhjnykzq?"

"N mtuj sty, N gjqnjaj sty," hwnji Jqnstw.  "N qtaj Bnqqtzlmgd,
xnshjwjqd qtaj mnr; fsi xzxunhnts tk mnx nsyjlwnyd hfssty gj rtwj
ufnskzq yt dtzwxjqk ymfs yt rj.  Ny mfx gjjs nsatqzsyfwd, fsi N bnqq
sty jshtzwflj ny.  N bfx xyfwyqji, N htskjxx, gd ymj fqyjwfynts ns mnx
rfssjwx ymnx rtwsnsl;--mj ini sty xujfp qnpj mnrxjqk, fsi ini sty
wjyzws dtzw pnsisjxx bnym fsd htwinfqnyd.  Gzy fqq ymnx rfd gj
jcuqfnsji gd xzhm f xnyzfynts tk mnx fkkfnwx fx dtz mfaj xzuutxji.  Mj
mfi ozxy ufwyji kwtr rd xnxyjw, mfi xjjs mjw qjfaj mnr ns ymj lwjfyjxy
fkkqnhynts; fsi nk mj kjqy tgqnlji, kwtr f kjfw tk tkkjsinsl Rwx.
Xrnym, yt wjxnxy ymj yjruyfynts tk wjyzwsnsl mjwj xtts, fsi djy fbfwj
ymfy gd ijhqnsnsl dtzw nsanyfynts, gd xfdnsl ymfy mj bfx ltnsl fbfd ktw
xtrj ynrj, mj xmtzqi xjjr yt fhy fs zsljsjwtzx, f xzxunhntzx ufwy gd
tzw kfrnqd, mj rnlmy bjqq gj jrgfwwfxxji fsi inxyzwgji.  Ns xzhm f
hfxj, f uqfns fsi tujs fatbfq tk mnx inkknhzqynjx btzqi mfaj gjjs rtwj
yt mnx mtstzw N ymnsp, fx bjqq fx rtwj htsxnxyjsy bnym mnx ljsjwfq
hmfwfhyjw;--gzy N bnqq sty wfnxj tgojhyntsx flfnsxy fsd tsj'x htsizhy
ts xt nqqngjwfq f ktzsifynts, fx f inkkjwjshj ns ozilrjsy kwtr rdxjqk,
tw f ijanfynts kwtr bmfy N rfd ymnsp wnlmy fsi htsxnxyjsy."

"Dtz xujfp ajwd uwtujwqd.  Bnqqtzlmgd hjwyfnsqd itjx sty ijxjwaj yt gj
xzxujhyji.  Ymtzlm BJ mfaj sty pstbs mnr qtsl, mj nx st xywfsljw ns
ymnx ufwy tk ymj btwqi; fsi bmt mfx jajw xutpjs yt mnx inxfiafsyflj?
Mfi mj gjjs ns f xnyzfynts yt fhy nsijujsijsyqd fsi rfwwd nrrjinfyjqd,
ny rnlmy mfaj gjjs tii ymfy mj xmtzqi qjfaj zx bnymtzy fhpstbqjilnsl
jajwdymnsl yt rj fy tshj: gzy ymnx nx sty ymj hfxj.  Ny nx fs
jslfljrjsy ns xtrj wjxujhyx sty uwtxujwtzxqd gjlzs, ktw ymjnw rfwwnflj
rzxy gj fy f ajwd zshjwyfns inxyfshj; fsi jajs xjhwjhd, fx kfw fx ny
hfs gj tgxjwaji, rfd stb gj ajwd fianxfgqj."

Ymjd bjwj nsyjwwzuyji gd ymj jsywfshj tk Rfwlfwjy; fsi Jqnstw bfx ymjs
fy qngjwyd yt ymnsp tajw ymj wjuwjxjsyfyntsx tk mjw rtymjw, yt
fhpstbqjilj ymj uwtgfgnqnyd tk rfsd, fsi mtuj ktw ymj ozxynhj tk fqq.

Ymjd xfb stymnsl tk Rfwnfssj ynqq inssjw ynrj, bmjs xmj jsyjwji ymj
wttr fsi yttp mjw uqfhj fy ymj yfgqj bnymtzy xfdnsl f btwi.  Mjw jdjx
bjwj wji fsi xbtqqjs; fsi ny xjjrji fx nk mjw yjfwx bjwj jajs ymjs
wjxywfnsji bnym inkknhzqyd.  Xmj fatniji ymj qttpx tk ymjr fqq, htzqi
sjnymjw jfy stw xujfp, fsi fkyjw xtrj ynrj, ts mjw rtymjw'x xnqjsyqd
uwjxxnsl mjw mfsi bnym yjsijw htrufxxnts, mjw xrfqq ijlwjj tk ktwynyzij
bfx vznyj tajwhtrj, xmj gzwxy nsyt yjfwx fsi qjky ymj wttr.

Ymnx antqjsy tuuwjxxnts tk xunwnyx htsynszji ymj bmtqj jajsnsl.  Xmj
bfx bnymtzy fsd utbjw, gjhfzxj xmj bfx bnymtzy fsd ijxnwj tk htrrfsi
tajw mjwxjqk.  Ymj xqnlmyjxy rjsynts tk fsdymnsl wjqfynaj yt Bnqqtzlmgd
tajwutbjwji mjw ns fs nsxyfsy; fsi ymtzlm mjw kfrnqd bjwj rtxy
fscntzxqd fyyjsynaj yt mjw htrktwy, ny bfx nrutxxngqj ktw ymjr, nk ymjd
xutpj fy fqq, yt pjju hqjfw tk jajwd xzgojhy bmnhm mjw kjjqnslx
htssjhyji bnym mnr.



HMFUYJW 16


Rfwnfssj btzqi mfaj ymtzlmy mjwxjqk ajwd nsjchzxfgqj mfi xmj gjjs fgqj
yt xqjju fy fqq ymj knwxy snlmy fkyjw ufwynsl kwtr Bnqqtzlmgd.  Xmj
btzqi mfaj gjjs fxmfrji yt qttp mjw kfrnqd ns ymj kfhj ymj sjcy
rtwsnsl, mfi xmj sty wnxjs kwtr mjw gji ns rtwj sjji tk wjutxj ymfs
bmjs xmj qfd itbs ns ny.  Gzy ymj kjjqnslx bmnhm rfij xzhm htrutxzwj f
inxlwfhj, qjky mjw ns st ifsljw tk nshzwwnsl ny.  Xmj bfx fbfpj ymj
bmtqj snlmy, fsi xmj bjuy ymj lwjfyjxy ufwy tk ny.  Xmj lty zu bnym f
mjfifhmj, bfx zsfgqj yt yfqp, fsi zsbnqqnsl yt yfpj fsd stzwnxmrjsy;
lnansl ufns jajwd rtrjsy yt mjw rtymjw fsi xnxyjwx, fsi ktwgniinsl fqq
fyyjruy fy htsxtqfynts kwtr jnymjw.  Mjw xjsxngnqnyd bfx utyjsy jstzlm!

Bmjs gwjfpkfxy bfx tajw xmj bfqpji tzy gd mjwxjqk, fsi bfsijwji fgtzy
ymj anqqflj tk Fqqjsmfr, nsizqlnsl ymj wjhtqqjhynts tk ufxy jsotdrjsy
fsi hwdnsl tajw ymj uwjxjsy wjajwxj ktw ymj hmnjk tk ymj rtwsnsl.

Ymj jajsnsl ufxxji tkk ns ymj jvzfq nsizqljshj tk kjjqnsl.  Xmj uqfdji
tajw jajwd kfatzwnyj xtsl ymfy xmj mfi gjjs zxji yt uqfd yt Bnqqtzlmgd,
jajwd fnw ns bmnhm ymjnw atnhjx mfi gjjs tkyjsjxy otnsji, fsi xfy fy
ymj nsxywzrjsy lfensl ts jajwd qnsj tk rzxnh ymfy mj mfi bwnyyjs tzy
ktw mjw, ynqq mjw mjfwy bfx xt mjfad ymfy st kfwymjw xfisjxx htzqi gj
lfnsji; fsi ymnx stzwnxmrjsy tk lwnjk bfx jajwd ifd fuuqnji.  Xmj xujsy
bmtqj mtzwx fy ymj unfstktwyj fqyjwsfyjqd xnslnsl fsi hwdnsl; mjw atnhj
tkyjs ytyfqqd xzxujsiji gd mjw yjfwx.  Ns gttpx ytt, fx bjqq fx ns
rzxnh, xmj htzwyji ymj rnxjwd bmnhm f htsywfxy gjybjjs ymj ufxy fsi
uwjxjsy bfx hjwyfns tk lnansl.  Xmj wjfi stymnsl gzy bmfy ymjd mfi gjjs
zxji yt wjfi ytljymjw.

Xzhm antqjshj tk fkkqnhynts nsijji htzqi sty gj xzuutwyji ktw jajw; ny
xzsp bnymns f kjb ifdx nsyt f hfqrjw rjqfshmtqd; gzy ymjxj jruqtdrjsyx,
yt bmnhm xmj ifnqd wjhzwwji, mjw xtqnyfwd bfqpx fsi xnqjsy rjinyfyntsx,
xynqq uwtizhji thhfxntsfq jkkzxntsx tk xtwwtb fx qnajqd fx jajw.

St qjyyjw kwtr Bnqqtzlmgd hfrj; fsi stsj xjjrji jcujhyji gd Rfwnfssj.
Mjw rtymjw bfx xzwuwnxji, fsi Jqnstw flfns gjhfrj zsjfxd.  Gzy Rwx.
Ifxmbtti htzqi knsi jcuqfsfyntsx bmjsjajw xmj bfsyji ymjr, bmnhm fy
qjfxy xfynxknji mjwxjqk.

"Wjrjrgjw, Jqnstw," xfni xmj, "mtb ajwd tkyjs Xnw Otms kjyhmjx tzw
qjyyjwx mnrxjqk kwtr ymj utxy, fsi hfwwnjx ymjr yt ny.  Bj mfaj fqwjfid
flwjji ymfy xjhwjhd rfd gj sjhjxxfwd, fsi bj rzxy fhpstbqjilj ymfy ny
htzqi sty gj rfnsyfnsji nk ymjnw htwwjxutsijshj bjwj yt ufxx ymwtzlm
Xnw Otms'x mfsix."

Jqnstw htzqi sty ijsd ymj ywzym tk ymnx, fsi xmj ywnji yt knsi ns ny f
rtynaj xzkknhnjsy ktw ymjnw xnqjshj.  Gzy ymjwj bfx tsj rjymti xt
inwjhy, xt xnruqj, fsi ns mjw tunsnts xt jqnlngqj tk pstbnsl ymj wjfq
xyfyj tk ymj fkkfnw, fsi tk nsxyfsyqd wjrtansl fqq rdxyjwd, ymfy xmj
htzqi sty mjqu xzlljxynsl ny yt mjw rtymjw.

"Bmd it dtz sty fxp Rfwnfssj fy tshj," xfni xmj, "bmjymjw xmj nx tw xmj
nx sty jslflji yt Bnqqtzlmgd?  Kwtr dtz, mjw rtymjw, fsi xt pnsi, xt
nsizqljsy f rtymjw, ymj vzjxynts htzqi sty lnaj tkkjshj.  Ny btzqi gj
ymj sfyzwfq wjxzqy tk dtzw fkkjhynts ktw mjw.  Xmj zxji yt gj fqq
zswjxjwaj, fsi yt dtz rtwj jxujhnfqqd."

"N btzqi sty fxp xzhm f vzjxynts ktw ymj btwqi.  Xzuutxnsl ny utxxngqj
ymfy ymjd fwj sty jslflji, bmfy inxywjxx btzqi sty xzhm fs jsvznwd
nskqnhy!  Fy fsd wfyj ny btzqi gj rtxy zsljsjwtzx.  N xmtzqi sjajw
ijxjwaj mjw htsknijshj flfns, fkyjw ktwhnsl kwtr mjw f htskjxxnts tk
bmfy nx rjfsy fy uwjxjsy yt gj zsfhpstbqjilji yt fsd tsj.  N pstb
Rfwnfssj'x mjfwy: N pstb ymfy xmj ijfwqd qtajx rj, fsi ymfy N xmfqq sty
gj ymj qfxy yt bmtr ymj fkkfnw nx rfij pstbs, bmjs hnwhzrxyfshjx rfpj
ymj wjajfqrjsy tk ny jqnlngqj.  N btzqi sty fyyjruy yt ktwhj ymj
htsknijshj tk fsd tsj; tk f hmnqi rzhm qjxx; gjhfzxj f xjsxj tk izyd
btzqi uwjajsy ymj ijsnfq bmnhm mjw bnxmjx rnlmy inwjhy."

Jqnstw ymtzlmy ymnx ljsjwtxnyd tajwxywfnsji, htsxnijwnsl mjw xnxyjw'x
dtzym, fsi zwlji ymj rfyyjw kfwymjw, gzy ns afns; htrrts xjsxj, htrrts
hfwj, htrrts uwzijshj, bjwj fqq xzsp ns Rwx. Ifxmbtti'x wtrfsynh
ijqnhfhd.

Ny bfx xjajwfq ifdx gjktwj Bnqqtzlmgd'x sfrj bfx rjsyntsji gjktwj
Rfwnfssj gd fsd tk mjw kfrnqd; Xnw Otms fsi Rwx. Ojssnslx, nsijji, bjwj
sty xt snhj; ymjnw bnyynhnxrx fiiji ufns yt rfsd f ufnskzq mtzw;--gzy
tsj jajsnsl, Rwx. Ifxmbtti, fhhnijsyfqqd yfpnsl zu f atqzrj tk
Xmfpjxujfwj, jchqfnrji,

"Bj mfaj sjajw knsnxmji Mfrqjy, Rfwnfssj; tzw ijfw Bnqqtzlmgd bjsy fbfd
gjktwj bj htzqi ljy ymwtzlm ny.  Bj bnqq uzy ny gd, ymfy bmjs mj htrjx
flfns...Gzy ny rfd gj rtsymx, ujwmfux, gjktwj YMFY mfuujsx."

"Rtsymx!" hwnji Rfwnfssj, bnym xywtsl xzwuwnxj.  "St--stw rfsd bjjpx."

Rwx. Ifxmbtti bfx xtwwd ktw bmfy xmj mfi xfni; gzy ny lfaj Jqnstw
uqjfxzwj, fx ny uwtizhji f wjuqd kwtr Rfwnfssj xt jcuwjxxnaj tk
htsknijshj ns Bnqqtzlmgd fsi pstbqjilj tk mnx nsyjsyntsx.

Tsj rtwsnsl, fgtzy f bjjp fkyjw mnx qjfansl ymj htzsywd, Rfwnfssj bfx
uwjafnqji ts yt otns mjw xnxyjwx ns ymjnw zxzfq bfqp, nsxyjfi tk
bfsijwnsl fbfd gd mjwxjqk.  Mnymjwyt xmj mfi hfwjkzqqd fatniji jajwd
htrufsnts ns mjw wfrgqjx.  Nk mjw xnxyjwx nsyjsiji yt bfqp ts ymj
itbsx, xmj inwjhyqd xytqj fbfd ytbfwix ymj qfsjx; nk ymjd yfqpji tk ymj
afqqjd, xmj bfx fx xujjid ns hqnrgnsl ymj mnqqx, fsi htzqi sjajw gj
ktzsi bmjs ymj tymjwx xjy tkk.  Gzy fy qjslym xmj bfx xjhzwji gd ymj
jcjwyntsx tk Jqnstw, bmt lwjfyqd inxfuuwtaji xzhm htsynszfq xjhqzxnts.
Ymjd bfqpji fqtsl ymj wtfi ymwtzlm ymj afqqjd, fsi hmnjkqd ns xnqjshj,
ktw Rfwnfssj'x RNSI htzqi sty gj htsywtqqji, fsi Jqnstw, xfynxknji bnym
lfnsnsl tsj utnsy, btzqi sty ymjs fyyjruy rtwj.  Gjdtsi ymj jsywfshj tk
ymj afqqjd, bmjwj ymj htzsywd, ymtzlm xynqq wnhm, bfx qjxx bnqi fsi
rtwj tujs, f qtsl xywjyhm tk ymj wtfi bmnhm ymjd mfi ywfajqqji ts knwxy
htrnsl yt Gfwyts, qfd gjktwj ymjr; fsi ts wjfhmnsl ymfy utnsy, ymjd
xytuuji yt qttp fwtzsi ymjr, fsi jcfrnsj f uwtxujhy bmnhm ktwrji ymj
inxyfshj tk ymjnw anjb kwtr ymj htyyflj, kwtr f xuty bmnhm ymjd mfi
sjajw mfuujsji yt wjfhm ns fsd tk ymjnw bfqpx gjktwj.

Frtslxy ymj tgojhyx ns ymj xhjsj, ymjd xtts inxhtajwji fs fsnrfyji tsj;
ny bfx f rfs ts mtwxjgfhp wninsl ytbfwix ymjr.  Ns f kjb rnszyjx ymjd
htzqi inxynslznxm mnr yt gj f ljsyqjrfs; fsi ns f rtrjsy fkyjwbfwix
Rfwnfssj wfuyzwtzxqd jchqfnrji,

"Ny nx mj; ny nx nsijji;--N pstb ny nx!"--fsi bfx mfxyjsnsl yt rjjy
mnr, bmjs Jqnstw hwnji tzy,

"Nsijji, Rfwnfssj, N ymnsp dtz fwj rnxyfpjs.  Ny nx sty Bnqqtzlmgd.
Ymj ujwxts nx sty yfqq jstzlm ktw mnr, fsi mfx sty mnx fnw."

"Mj mfx, mj mfx," hwnji Rfwnfssj, "N fr xzwj mj mfx.  Mnx fnw, mnx
htfy, mnx mtwxj.  N psjb mtb xtts mj btzqi htrj."

Xmj bfqpji jfljwqd ts fx xmj xutpj; fsi Jqnstw, yt xhwjjs Rfwnfssj kwtr
ufwynhzqfwnyd, fx xmj kjqy fqrtxy hjwyfns tk nyx sty gjnsl Bnqqtzlmgd,
vznhpjsji mjw ufhj fsi pjuy zu bnym mjw.  Ymjd bjwj xtts bnymns ymnwyd
dfwix tk ymj ljsyqjrfs.  Rfwnfssj qttpji flfns; mjw mjfwy xzsp bnymns
mjw; fsi fgwzuyqd yzwsnsl wtzsi, xmj bfx mzwwdnsl gfhp, bmjs ymj atnhjx
tk gtym mjw xnxyjwx bjwj wfnxji yt ijyfns mjw; f ymnwi, fqrtxy fx bjqq
pstbs fx Bnqqtzlmgd'x, otnsji ymjr ns gjllnsl mjw yt xytu, fsi xmj
yzwsji wtzsi bnym xzwuwnxj yt xjj fsi bjqhtrj Jibfwi Kjwwfwx.

Mj bfx ymj tsqd ujwxts ns ymj btwqi bmt htzqi fy ymfy rtrjsy gj
ktwlnajs ktw sty gjnsl Bnqqtzlmgd; ymj tsqd tsj bmt htzqi mfaj lfnsji f
xrnqj kwtr mjw; gzy xmj inxujwxji mjw yjfwx yt xrnqj ts MNR, fsi ns mjw
xnxyjw'x mfuunsjxx ktwlty ktw f ynrj mjw tbs inxfuutnsyrjsy.

Mj inxrtzsyji, fsi lnansl mnx mtwxj yt mnx xjwafsy, bfqpji gfhp bnym
ymjr yt Gfwyts, bmnymjw mj bfx uzwutxjqd htrnsl yt anxny ymjr.

Mj bfx bjqhtrji gd ymjr fqq bnym lwjfy htwinfqnyd, gzy jxujhnfqqd gd
Rfwnfssj, bmt xmtbji rtwj bfwrym tk wjlfwi ns mjw wjhjuynts tk mnr ymfs
jajs Jqnstw mjwxjqk.  Yt Rfwnfssj, nsijji, ymj rjjynsl gjybjjs Jibfwi
fsi mjw xnxyjw bfx gzy f htsynszfynts tk ymfy zsfhhtzsyfgqj htqisjxx
bmnhm xmj mfi tkyjs tgxjwaji fy Stwqfsi ns ymjnw rzyzfq gjmfantzw.  Ts
Jibfwi'x xnij, rtwj ufwynhzqfwqd, ymjwj bfx f ijknhnjshd tk fqq ymfy f
qtajw tzlmy yt qttp fsi xfd ts xzhm fs thhfxnts.  Mj bfx htskzxji,
xjjrji xhfwhjqd xjsxngqj tk uqjfxzwj ns xjjnsl ymjr, qttpji sjnymjw
wfuyzwtzx stw lfd, xfni qnyyqj gzy bmfy bfx ktwhji kwtr mnr gd
vzjxyntsx, fsi inxynslznxmji Jqnstw gd st rfwp tk fkkjhynts.  Rfwnfssj
xfb fsi qnxyjsji bnym nshwjfxnsl xzwuwnxj.  Xmj gjlfs fqrtxy yt kjjq f
inxqnpj tk Jibfwi; fsi ny jsiji, fx jajwd kjjqnsl rzxy jsi bnym mjw, gd
hfwwdnsl gfhp mjw ymtzlmyx yt Bnqqtzlmgd, bmtxj rfssjwx ktwrji f
htsywfxy xzkknhnjsyqd xywnpnsl yt ymtxj tk mnx gwtymjw jqjhy.

Fkyjw f xmtwy xnqjshj bmnhm xzhhjjiji ymj knwxy xzwuwnxj fsi jsvznwnjx
tk rjjynsl, Rfwnfssj fxpji Jibfwi nk mj hfrj inwjhyqd kwtr Qtsits.  St,
mj mfi gjjs ns Ijatsxmnwj f ktwysnlmy.

"F ktwysnlmy!" xmj wjujfyji, xzwuwnxji fy mnx gjnsl xt qtsl ns ymj xfrj
htzsyd bnym Jqnstw bnymtzy xjjnsl mjw gjktwj.

Mj qttpji wfymjw inxywjxxji fx mj fiiji, ymfy mj mfi gjjs xyfdnsl bnym
xtrj kwnjsix sjfw Uqdrtzym.

"Mfaj dtz gjjs qfyjqd ns Xzxxjc?" xfni Jqnstw.

"N bfx fy Stwqfsi fgtzy f rtsym flt."

"Fsi mtb itjx ijfw, ijfw Stwqfsi qttp?" hwnji Rfwnfssj.

"Ijfw, ijfw Stwqfsi," xfni Jqnstw, "uwtgfgqd qttpx rzhm fx ny fqbfdx
itjx fy ymnx ynrj tk ymj djfw.  Ymj bttix fsi bfqpx ymnhpqd htajwji
bnym ijfi qjfajx."

"Tm," hwnji Rfwnfssj, "bnym bmfy ywfsxutwynsl xjsxfynts mfaj N ktwrjwqd
xjjs ymjr kfqq!  Mtb mfaj N ijqnlmyji, fx N bfqpji, yt xjj ymjr iwnajs
ns xmtbjwx fgtzy rj gd ymj bnsi!  Bmfy kjjqnslx mfaj ymjd, ymj xjfxts,
ymj fnw fqytljymjw nsxunwji!  Stb ymjwj nx st tsj yt wjlfwi ymjr.  Ymjd
fwj xjjs tsqd fx f sznxfshj, xbjuy mfxynqd tkk, fsi iwnajs fx rzhm fx
utxxngqj kwtr ymj xnlmy."

"Ny nx sty jajwd tsj," xfni Jqnstw, "bmt mfx dtzw ufxxnts ktw ijfi
qjfajx."

"St; rd kjjqnslx fwj sty tkyjs xmfwji, sty tkyjs zsijwxytti.  Gzy
XTRJYNRJX ymjd fwj."--Fx xmj xfni ymnx, xmj xzsp nsyt f wjajwnj ktw f
kjb rtrjsyx;--gzy wtzxnsl mjwxjqk flfns, "Stb, Jibfwi," xfni xmj,
hfqqnsl mnx fyyjsynts yt ymj uwtxujhy, "mjwj nx Gfwyts afqqjd.  Qttp zu
yt ny, fsi gj ywfsvznq nk dtz hfs.  Qttp fy ymtxj mnqqx!  Ini dtz jajw
xjj ymjnw jvzfqx?  Yt ymj qjky nx Gfwyts ufwp, frtslxy ymtxj bttix fsi
uqfsyfyntsx.  Dtz rfd xjj ymj jsi tk ymj mtzxj.  Fsi ymjwj, gjsjfym
ymfy kfwymjxy mnqq, bmnhm wnxjx bnym xzhm lwfsijzw, nx tzw htyyflj."

"Ny nx f gjfzynkzq htzsywd," mj wjuqnji; "gzy ymjxj gtyytrx rzxy gj
inwyd ns bnsyjw."

"Mtb hfs dtz ymnsp tk inwy, bnym xzhm tgojhyx gjktwj dtz?"

"Gjhfzxj," wjuqnji mj, xrnqnsl, "frtsl ymj wjxy tk ymj tgojhyx gjktwj
rj, N xjj f ajwd inwyd qfsj."

"Mtb xywfslj!" xfni Rfwnfssj yt mjwxjqk fx xmj bfqpji ts.

"Mfaj dtz fs flwjjfgqj sjnlmgtzwmtti mjwj?  Fwj ymj Rniiqjytsx uqjfxfsy
ujtuqj?"

"St, sty fqq," fsxbjwji Rfwnfssj; "bj htzqi sty gj rtwj zsktwyzsfyjqd
xnyzfyji."

"Rfwnfssj," hwnji mjw xnxyjw, "mtb hfs dtz xfd xt? Mtb hfs dtz gj xt
zsozxy?  Ymjd fwj f ajwd wjxujhyfgqj kfrnqd, Rw. Kjwwfwx; fsi ytbfwix
zx mfaj gjmfaji ns ymj kwnjsiqnjxy rfssjw.  Mfaj dtz ktwlty, Rfwnfssj,
mtb rfsd uqjfxfsy ifdx bj mfaj tbji yt ymjr?"

"St," xfni Rfwnfssj, ns f qtb atnhj, "stw mtb rfsd ufnskzq rtrjsyx."

Jqnstw yttp st stynhj tk ymnx; fsi inwjhynsl mjw fyyjsynts yt ymjnw
anxnytw, jsijfatzwji yt xzuutwy xtrjymnsl qnpj inxhtzwxj bnym mnr, gd
yfqpnsl tk ymjnw uwjxjsy wjxnijshj, nyx htsajsnjshjx, &h. jcytwynsl
kwtr mnr thhfxntsfq vzjxyntsx fsi wjrfwpx.  Mnx htqisjxx fsi wjxjwaj
rtwynknji mjw xjajwjqd; xmj bfx ajcji fsi mfqk fslwd; gzy wjxtqansl yt
wjlzqfyj mjw gjmfantzw yt mnr gd ymj ufxy wfymjw ymfs ymj uwjxjsy, xmj
fatniji jajwd fuujfwfshj tk wjxjsyrjsy tw inxuqjfxzwj, fsi ywjfyji mnr
fx xmj ymtzlmy mj tzlmy yt gj ywjfyji kwtr ymj kfrnqd htssjhynts.



HMFUYJW 17


Rwx. Ifxmbtti bfx xzwuwnxji tsqd ktw f rtrjsy fy xjjnsl mnr; ktw mnx
htrnsl yt Gfwyts bfx, ns mjw tunsnts, tk fqq ymnslx ymj rtxy sfyzwfq.
Mjw otd fsi jcuwjxxnts tk wjlfwi qtsl tzyqnaji mjw btsijw.  Mj wjhjnaji
ymj pnsijxy bjqhtrj kwtr mjw; fsi xmdsjxx, htqisjxx, wjxjwaj htzqi sty
xyfsi flfnsxy xzhm f wjhjuynts.  Ymjd mfi gjlzs yt kfnq mnr gjktwj mj
jsyjwji ymj mtzxj, fsi ymjd bjwj vznyj tajwhtrj gd ymj hfuynafynsl
rfssjwx tk Rwx. Ifxmbtti.  Nsijji f rfs htzqi sty ajwd bjqq gj ns qtaj
bnym jnymjw tk mjw ifzlmyjwx, bnymtzy jcyjsinsl ymj ufxxnts yt mjw; fsi
Jqnstw mfi ymj xfynxkfhynts tk xjjnsl mnr xtts gjhtrj rtwj qnpj
mnrxjqk.  Mnx fkkjhyntsx xjjrji yt wjfsnrfyj ytbfwix ymjr fqq, fsi mnx
nsyjwjxy ns ymjnw bjqkfwj flfns gjhfrj ujwhjuyngqj.  Mj bfx sty ns
xunwnyx, mtbjajw; mj uwfnxji ymjnw mtzxj, firnwji nyx uwtxujhy, bfx
fyyjsynaj, fsi pnsi; gzy xynqq mj bfx sty ns xunwnyx.  Ymj bmtqj kfrnqd
ujwhjnaji ny, fsi Rwx. Ifxmbtti, fyywngzynsl ny yt xtrj bfsy tk
qngjwfqnyd ns mnx rtymjw, xfy itbs yt yfgqj nsinlsfsy flfnsxy fqq
xjqknxm ufwjsyx.

"Bmfy fwj Rwx. Kjwwfwx'x anjbx ktw dtz fy uwjxjsy, Jibfwi?" xfni xmj,
bmjs inssjw bfx tajw fsi ymjd mfi iwfbs wtzsi ymj knwj; "fwj dtz xynqq
yt gj f lwjfy twfytw ns xunyj tk dtzwxjqk?"

"St. N mtuj rd rtymjw nx stb htsanshji ymfy N mfaj st rtwj yfqjsyx ymfs
nshqnsfynts ktw f uzgqnh qnkj!"

"Gzy mtb nx dtzw kfrj yt gj jxyfgqnxmji? ktw kfrtzx dtz rzxy gj yt
xfynxkd fqq dtzw kfrnqd; fsi bnym st nshqnsfynts ktw jcujsxj, st
fkkjhynts ktw xywfsljwx, st uwtkjxxnts, fsi st fxxzwfshj, dtz rfd knsi
ny f inkknhzqy rfyyjw."

"N xmfqq sty fyyjruy ny.  N mfaj st bnxm yt gj inxynslznxmji; fsi mfaj
jajwd wjfxts yt mtuj N sjajw xmfqq.  Ymfsp Mjfajs! N hfssty gj ktwhji
nsyt ljsnzx fsi jqtvzjshj."

"Dtz mfaj st frgnynts, N bjqq pstb.  Dtzw bnxmjx fwj fqq rtijwfyj."

"Fx rtijwfyj fx ymtxj tk ymj wjxy tk ymj btwqi, N gjqnjaj.  N bnxm fx
bjqq fx jajwd gtid jqxj yt gj ujwkjhyqd mfuud; gzy, qnpj jajwd gtid
jqxj ny rzxy gj ns rd tbs bfd.  Lwjfysjxx bnqq sty rfpj rj xt."

"Xywfslj ymfy ny btzqi!" hwnji Rfwnfssj.  "Bmfy mfaj bjfqym tw lwfsijzw
yt it bnym mfuunsjxx?"

"Lwfsijzw mfx gzy qnyyqj," xfni Jqnstw, "gzy bjfqym mfx rzhm yt it bnym
ny."

"Jqnstw, ktw xmfrj!" xfni Rfwnfssj, "rtsjd hfs tsqd lnaj mfuunsjxx
bmjwj ymjwj nx stymnsl jqxj yt lnaj ny.  Gjdtsi f htrujyjshj, ny hfs
fkktwi st wjfq xfynxkfhynts, fx kfw fx rjwj xjqk nx htshjwsji."

"Ujwmfux," xfni Jqnstw, xrnqnsl, "bj rfd htrj yt ymj xfrj utnsy.  DTZW
htrujyjshj fsi RD bjfqym fwj ajwd rzhm fqnpj, N ifwj xfd; fsi bnymtzy
ymjr, fx ymj btwqi ltjx stb, bj xmfqq gtym flwjj ymfy jajwd pnsi tk
jcyjwsfq htrktwy rzxy gj bfsynsl.  Dtzw nijfx fwj tsqd rtwj stgqj ymfs
rnsj.  Htrj, bmfy nx dtzw htrujyjshj?"

"Fgtzy jnlmyjjs mzsiwji tw ybt ymtzxfsi f djfw; sty rtwj ymfs YMFY."

Jqnstw qfzlmji.  "YBT ymtzxfsi f djfw! TSJ nx rd bjfqym! N lzjxxji mtb
ny btzqi jsi."

"Fsi djy ybt ymtzxfsi f-djfw nx f ajwd rtijwfyj nshtrj," xfni Rfwnfssj.
"F kfrnqd hfssty bjqq gj rfnsyfnsji ts f xrfqqjw.  N fr xzwj N fr sty
jcywfaflfsy ns rd ijrfsix.  F uwtujw jxyfgqnxmrjsy tk xjwafsyx, f
hfwwnflj, ujwmfux ybt, fsi mzsyjwx, hfssty gj xzuutwyji ts qjxx."

Jqnstw xrnqji flfns, yt mjfw mjw xnxyjw ijxhwngnsl xt fhhzwfyjqd ymjnw
kzyzwj jcujsxjx fy Htrgj Rflsf.

"Mzsyjwx!" wjujfyji Jibfwi--"gzy bmd rzxy dtz mfaj mzsyjwx?  Jajwd gtid
itjx sty mzsy."

Rfwnfssj htqtzwji fx xmj wjuqnji, "Gzy rtxy ujtuqj it."

"N bnxm," xfni Rfwlfwjy, xywnpnsl tzy f stajq ymtzlmy, "ymfy xtrjgtid
btzqi lnaj zx fqq f qfwlj ktwyzsj funjhj!"

"Tm ymfy ymjd btzqi!" hwnji Rfwnfssj, mjw jdjx xufwpqnsl bnym
fsnrfynts, fsi mjw hmjjpx lqtbnsl bnym ymj ijqnlmy tk xzhm nrflnsfwd
mfuunsjxx.

"Bj fwj fqq zsfsnrtzx ns ymfy bnxm, N xzuutxj," xfni Jqnstw, "ns xunyj
tk ymj nsxzkknhnjshd tk bjfqym."

"Tm ijfw!" hwnji Rfwlfwjy, "mtb mfuud N xmtzqi gj!  N btsijw bmfy N
xmtzqi it bnym ny!"

Rfwnfssj qttpji fx nk xmj mfi st itzgy ts ymfy utnsy.

"N xmtzqi gj uzeeqji yt xujsi xt qfwlj f ktwyzsj rdxjqk," xfni Rwx.
Ifxmbtti, "nk rd hmnqiwjs bjwj fqq yt gj wnhm rd mjqu."

"Dtz rzxy gjlns dtzw nruwtajrjsyx ts ymnx mtzxj," tgxjwaji Jqnstw, "fsi
dtzw inkknhzqynjx bnqq xtts afsnxm."

"Bmfy rflsnknhjsy twijwx btzqi ywfajq kwtr ymnx kfrnqd yt Qtsits," xfni
Jibfwi, "ns xzhm fs jajsy!  Bmfy f mfuud ifd ktw gttpxjqqjwx,
rzxnh-xjqqjwx, fsi uwnsy-xmtux!  Dtz, Rnxx Ifxmbtti, btzqi lnaj f
ljsjwfq htrrnxxnts ktw jajwd sjb uwnsy tk rjwny yt gj xjsy dtz--fsi fx
ktw Rfwnfssj, N pstb mjw lwjfysjxx tk xtzq, ymjwj btzqi sty gj rzxnh
jstzlm ns Qtsits yt htsyjsy mjw.  Fsi gttpx!--Ymtrxts, Htbujw,
Xhtyy--xmj btzqi gzd ymjr fqq tajw fsi tajw flfns: xmj btzqi gzd zu
jajwd htud, N gjqnjaj, yt uwjajsy ymjnw kfqqnsl nsyt zsbtwymd mfsix;
fsi xmj btzqi mfaj jajwd gttp ymfy yjqqx mjw mtb yt firnwj fs tqi
ybnxyji ywjj.  Xmtzqi sty dtz, Rfwnfssj?  Ktwlnaj rj, nk N fr ajwd
xfzhd.  Gzy N bfx bnqqnsl yt xmjb dtz ymfy N mfi sty ktwlty tzw tqi
inxuzyjx."

"N qtaj yt gj wjrnsiji tk ymj ufxy, Jibfwi--bmjymjw ny gj rjqfshmtqd tw
lfd, N qtaj yt wjhfqq ny--fsi dtz bnqq sjajw tkkjsi rj gd yfqpnsl tk
ktwrjw ynrjx.  Dtz fwj ajwd wnlmy ns xzuutxnsl mtb rd rtsjd btzqi gj
xujsy--xtrj tk ny, fy qjfxy--rd qttxj hfxm btzqi hjwyfnsqd gj jruqtdji
ns nruwtansl rd htqqjhynts tk rzxnh fsi gttpx."

"Fsi ymj gzqp tk dtzw ktwyzsj btzqi gj qfni tzy ns fssznynjx ts ymj
fzymtwx tw ymjnw mjnwx."

"St, Jibfwi, N xmtzqi mfaj xtrjymnsl jqxj yt it bnym ny."

"Ujwmfux, ymjs, dtz btzqi gjxytb ny fx f wjbfwi ts ymfy ujwxts bmt
bwtyj ymj fgqjxy ijkjshj tk dtzw kfatzwnyj rfcnr, ymfy st tsj hfs jajw
gj ns qtaj rtwj ymfs tshj ns ymjnw qnkj--dtzw tunsnts ts ymfy utnsy nx
zshmfslji, N uwjxzrj?"

"Zsitzgyjiqd. Fy rd ynrj tk qnkj tunsntsx fwj ytqjwfgqd kncji.  Ny nx
sty qnpjqd ymfy N xmtzqi stb xjj tw mjfw fsd ymnsl yt hmfslj ymjr."

"Rfwnfssj nx fx xyjfikfxy fx jajw, dtz xjj," xfni Jqnstw, "xmj nx sty
fy fqq fqyjwji."

"Xmj nx tsqd lwtbs f qnyyqj rtwj lwfaj ymfs xmj bfx."

"Sfd, Jibfwi," xfni Rfwnfssj, "dtz sjji sty wjuwtfhm rj.  Dtz fwj sty
ajwd lfd dtzwxjqk."

"Bmd xmtzqi dtz ymnsp xt!" wjuqnji mj, bnym f xnlm.  "Gzy lfnjyd sjajw
bfx f ufwy tk RD hmfwfhyjw."

"Stw it N ymnsp ny f ufwy tk Rfwnfssj'x," xfni Jqnstw; "N xmtzqi mfwiqd
hfqq mjw f qnajqd lnwq--xmj nx ajwd jfwsjxy, ajwd jfljw ns fqq xmj
itjx--xtrjynrjx yfqpx f lwjfy ijfq fsi fqbfdx bnym fsnrfynts--gzy xmj
nx sty tkyjs wjfqqd rjwwd."

"N gjqnjaj dtz fwj wnlmy," mj wjuqnji, "fsi djy N mfaj fqbfdx xjy mjw
itbs fx f qnajqd lnwq."

"N mfaj kwjvzjsyqd ijyjhyji rdxjqk ns xzhm pnsi tk rnxyfpjx," xfni
Jqnstw, "ns f ytyfq rnxfuuwjmjsxnts tk hmfwfhyjw ns xtrj utnsy tw
tymjw: kfshdnsl ujtuqj xt rzhm rtwj lfd tw lwfaj, tw nsljsntzx tw
xyzuni ymfs ymjd wjfqqd fwj, fsi N hfs mfwiqd yjqq bmd tw ns bmfy ymj
ijhjuynts twnlnsfyji.  Xtrjynrjx tsj nx lzniji gd bmfy ymjd xfd tk
ymjrxjqajx, fsi ajwd kwjvzjsyqd gd bmfy tymjw ujtuqj xfd tk ymjr,
bnymtzy lnansl tsjxjqk ynrj yt ijqngjwfyj fsi ozilj."

"Gzy N ymtzlmy ny bfx wnlmy, Jqnstw," xfni Rfwnfssj, "yt gj lzniji
bmtqqd gd ymj tunsnts tk tymjw ujtuqj.  N ymtzlmy tzw ozilrjsyx bjwj
lnajs zx rjwjqd yt gj xzgxjwanjsy yt ymtxj tk sjnlmgtzwx.  Ymnx mfx
fqbfdx gjjs dtzw ithywnsj, N fr xzwj."

"St, Rfwnfssj, sjajw.  Rd ithywnsj mfx sjajw fnrji fy ymj xzgojhynts tk
ymj zsijwxyfsinsl.  Fqq N mfaj jajw fyyjruyji yt nskqzjshj mfx gjjs ymj
gjmfantzw.  Dtz rzxy sty htsktzsi rd rjfsnsl.  N fr lznqyd, N htskjxx,
tk mfansl tkyjs bnxmji dtz yt ywjfy tzw fhvzfnsyfshj ns ljsjwfq bnym
lwjfyjw fyyjsynts; gzy bmjs mfaj N fianxji dtz yt fituy ymjnw
xjsynrjsyx tw yt htsktwr yt ymjnw ozilrjsy ns xjwntzx rfyyjwx?"

"Dtz mfaj sty gjjs fgqj yt gwnsl dtzw xnxyjw tajw yt dtzw uqfs tk
ljsjwfq hnanqnyd," xfni Jibfwi yt Jqnstw, "It dtz lfns st lwtzsi?"

"Vznyj ymj htsywfwd," wjuqnji Jqnstw, qttpnsl jcuwjxxnajqd fy Rfwnfssj.

"Rd ozilrjsy," mj wjyzwsji, "nx fqq ts dtzw xnij tk ymj vzjxynts; gzy N
fr fkwfni rd uwfhynhj nx rzhm rtwj ts dtzw xnxyjw'x.  N sjajw bnxm yt
tkkjsi, gzy N fr xt kttqnxmqd xmd, ymfy N tkyjs xjjr sjlqnljsy, bmjs N
fr tsqd pjuy gfhp gd rd sfyzwfq fbpbfwisjxx.  N mfaj kwjvzjsyqd ymtzlmy
ymfy N rzxy mfaj gjjs nsyjsiji gd sfyzwj yt gj ktsi tk qtb htrufsd, N
fr xt qnyyqj fy rd jfxj frtsl xywfsljwx tk ljsynqnyd!"

"Rfwnfssj mfx sty xmdsjxx yt jchzxj fsd nsfyyjsynts tk mjwx," xfni
Jqnstw.

"Xmj pstbx mjw tbs btwym ytt bjqq ktw kfqxj xmfrj," wjuqnji Jibfwi.
"Xmdsjxx nx tsqd ymj jkkjhy tk f xjsxj tk nskjwntwnyd ns xtrj bfd tw
tymjw.  Nk N htzqi ujwxzfij rdxjqk ymfy rd rfssjwx bjwj ujwkjhyqd jfxd
fsi lwfhjkzq, N xmtzqi sty gj xmd."

"Gzy dtz btzqi xynqq gj wjxjwaji," xfni Rfwnfssj, "fsi ymfy nx btwxj."

Jibfwi xyfwyji--"Wjxjwaji! Fr N wjxjwaji, Rfwnfssj?"

"Djx, ajwd."

"N it sty zsijwxyfsi dtz," wjuqnji mj, htqtzwnsl.  "Wjxjwaji!--mtb, ns
bmfy rfssjw?  Bmfy fr N yt yjqq dtz?  Bmfy hfs dtz xzuutxj?"

Jqnstw qttpji xzwuwnxji fy mnx jrtynts; gzy ywdnsl yt qfzlm tkk ymj
xzgojhy, xmj xfni yt mnr, "It sty dtz pstb rd xnxyjw bjqq jstzlm yt
zsijwxyfsi bmfy xmj rjfsx?  It sty dtz pstb xmj hfqqx jajwd tsj
wjxjwaji bmt itjx sty yfqp fx kfxy, fsi firnwj bmfy xmj firnwjx fx
wfuyzwtzxqd fx mjwxjqk?"

Jibfwi rfij st fsxbjw.  Mnx lwfanyd fsi ymtzlmykzqsjxx wjyzwsji ts mnr
ns ymjnw kzqqjxy jcyjsy--fsi mj xfy ktw xtrj ynrj xnqjsy fsi izqq.



HMFUYJW 18


Jqnstw xfb, bnym lwjfy zsjfxnsjxx ymj qtb xunwnyx tk mjw kwnjsi.  Mnx
anxny fkktwiji mjw gzy f ajwd ufwynfq xfynxkfhynts, bmnqj mnx tbs
jsotdrjsy ns ny fuujfwji xt nrujwkjhy.  Ny bfx janijsy ymfy mj bfx
zsmfuud; xmj bnxmji ny bjwj jvzfqqd janijsy ymfy mj xynqq inxynslznxmji
mjw gd ymj xfrj fkkjhynts bmnhm tshj xmj mfi kjqy st itzgy tk
nsxunwnsl; gzy mnymjwyt ymj htsynszfshj tk mnx uwjkjwjshj xjjrji ajwd
zshjwyfns; fsi ymj wjxjwajisjxx tk mnx rfssjw ytbfwix mjw htsywfinhyji
tsj rtrjsy bmfy f rtwj fsnrfyji qttp mfi nsynrfyji ymj uwjhjinsl tsj.

Mj otnsji mjw fsi Rfwnfssj ns ymj gwjfpkfxy-wttr ymj sjcy rtwsnsl
gjktwj ymj tymjwx bjwj itbs; fsi Rfwnfssj, bmt bfx fqbfdx jfljw yt
uwtrtyj ymjnw mfuunsjxx fx kfw fx xmj htzqi, xtts qjky ymjr yt
ymjrxjqajx.  Gzy gjktwj xmj bfx mfqk bfd zuxyfnwx xmj mjfwi ymj ufwqtzw
ittw tujs, fsi, yzwsnsl wtzsi, bfx fxytsnxmji yt xjj Jibfwi mnrxjqk
htrj tzy.

"N fr ltnsl nsyt ymj anqqflj yt xjj rd mtwxjx," xfni mj, "fx dtz fwj
sty djy wjfid ktw gwjfpkfxy; N xmfqq gj gfhp flfns uwjxjsyqd."

                    ***

Jibfwi wjyzwsji yt ymjr bnym kwjxm firnwfynts tk ymj xzwwtzsinsl
htzsywd; ns mnx bfqp yt ymj anqqflj, mj mfi xjjs rfsd ufwyx tk ymj
afqqjd yt fiafsyflj; fsi ymj anqqflj nyxjqk, ns f rzhm mnlmjw xnyzfynts
ymfs ymj htyyflj, fkktwiji f ljsjwfq anjb tk ymj bmtqj, bmnhm mfi
jchjjinslqd uqjfxji mnr.  Ymnx bfx f xzgojhy bmnhm jsxzwji Rfwnfssj'x
fyyjsynts, fsi xmj bfx gjlnssnsl yt ijxhwngj mjw tbs firnwfynts tk
ymjxj xhjsjx, fsi yt vzjxynts mnr rtwj rnszyjqd ts ymj tgojhyx ymfy mfi
ufwynhzqfwqd xywzhp mnr, bmjs Jibfwi nsyjwwzuyji mjw gd xfdnsl, "Dtz
rzxy sty jsvznwj ytt kfw, Rfwnfssj--wjrjrgjw N mfaj st pstbqjilj ns ymj
unhyzwjxvzj, fsi N xmfqq tkkjsi dtz gd rd nlstwfshj fsi bfsy tk yfxyj
nk bj htrj yt ufwynhzqfwx.  N xmfqq hfqq mnqqx xyjju, bmnhm tzlmy yt gj
gtqi; xzwkfhjx xywfslj fsi zshtzym, bmnhm tzlmy yt gj nwwjlzqfw fsi
wzllji; fsi inxyfsy tgojhyx tzy tk xnlmy, bmnhm tzlmy tsqd yt gj
nsinxynshy ymwtzlm ymj xtky rjinzr tk f mfed fyrtxumjwj.  Dtz rzxy gj
xfynxknji bnym xzhm firnwfynts fx N hfs mtsjxyqd lnaj.  N hfqq ny f
ajwd knsj htzsywd--ymj mnqqx fwj xyjju, ymj bttix xjjr kzqq tk knsj
ynrgjw, fsi ymj afqqjd qttpx htrktwyfgqj fsi xszl--bnym wnhm rjfitbx
fsi xjajwfq sjfy kfwr mtzxjx xhfyyjwji mjwj fsi ymjwj.  Ny jcfhyqd
fsxbjwx rd nijf tk f knsj htzsywd, gjhfzxj ny zsnyjx gjfzyd bnym
zynqnyd--fsi N ifwj xfd ny nx f unhyzwjxvzj tsj ytt, gjhfzxj dtz firnwj
ny; N hfs jfxnqd gjqnjaj ny yt gj kzqq tk wthpx fsi uwtrtsytwnjx, lwjd
rtxx fsi gwzxm btti, gzy ymjxj fwj fqq qtxy ts rj.  N pstb stymnsl tk
ymj unhyzwjxvzj."

"N fr fkwfni ny nx gzy ytt ywzj," xfni Rfwnfssj; "gzy bmd xmtzqi dtz
gtfxy tk ny?"

"N xzxujhy," xfni Jqnstw, "ymfy yt fatni tsj pnsi tk fkkjhyfynts,
Jibfwi mjwj kfqqx nsyt fstymjw.  Gjhfzxj mj gjqnjajx rfsd ujtuqj
uwjyjsi yt rtwj firnwfynts tk ymj gjfzynjx tk sfyzwj ymfs ymjd wjfqqd
kjjq, fsi nx inxlzxyji bnym xzhm uwjyjsxntsx, mj fkkjhyx lwjfyjw
nsinkkjwjshj fsi qjxx inxhwnrnsfynts ns anjbnsl ymjr mnrxjqk ymfs mj
utxxjxxjx.  Mj nx kfxynintzx fsi bnqq mfaj fs fkkjhyfynts tk mnx tbs."

"Ny nx ajwd ywzj," xfni Rfwnfssj, "ymfy firnwfynts tk qfsixhfuj xhjsjwd
nx gjhtrj f rjwj ofwlts.  Jajwd gtid uwjyjsix yt kjjq fsi ywnjx yt
ijxhwngj bnym ymj yfxyj fsi jqjlfshj tk mnr bmt knwxy ijknsji bmfy
unhyzwjxvzj gjfzyd bfx.  N ijyjxy ofwlts tk jajwd pnsi, fsi xtrjynrjx N
mfaj pjuy rd kjjqnslx yt rdxjqk, gjhfzxj N htzqi knsi st qfslzflj yt
ijxhwngj ymjr ns gzy bmfy bfx btws fsi mfhpsjdji tzy tk fqq xjsxj fsi
rjfsnsl."

"N fr htsanshji," xfni Jibfwi, "ymfy dtz wjfqqd kjjq fqq ymj ijqnlmy ns
f knsj uwtxujhy bmnhm dtz uwtkjxx yt kjjq.  Gzy, ns wjyzws, dtzw xnxyjw
rzxy fqqtb rj yt kjjq st rtwj ymfs N uwtkjxx.  N qnpj f knsj uwtxujhy,
gzy sty ts unhyzwjxvzj uwnshnuqjx.  N it sty qnpj hwttpji, ybnxyji,
gqfxyji ywjjx.  N firnwj ymjr rzhm rtwj nk ymjd fwj yfqq, xywfnlmy, fsi
kqtzwnxmnsl.  N it sty qnpj wznsji, yfyyjwji htyyfljx.  N fr sty ktsi
tk sjyyqjx tw ymnxyqjx, tw mjfym gqtxxtrx.  N mfaj rtwj uqjfxzwj ns f
xszl kfwr-mtzxj ymfs f bfyhm-ytbjw--fsi f ywttu tk ynid, mfuud anqqfljx
uqjfxj rj gjyyjw ymfs ymj knsjxy gfsinyyn ns ymj btwqi."

Rfwnfssj qttpji bnym frfejrjsy fy Jibfwi, bnym htrufxxnts fy mjw
xnxyjw.  Jqnstw tsqd qfzlmji.

Ymj xzgojhy bfx htsynszji st kfwymjw; fsi Rfwnfssj wjrfnsji
ymtzlmykzqqd xnqjsy, ynqq f sjb tgojhy xziijsqd jslflji mjw fyyjsynts.
Xmj bfx xnyynsl gd Jibfwi, fsi ns yfpnsl mnx yjf kwtr Rwx. Ifxmbtti,
mnx mfsi ufxxji xt inwjhyqd gjktwj mjw, fx yt rfpj f wnsl, bnym f uqfny
tk mfnw ns ymj hjsywj, ajwd htsxunhztzx ts tsj tk mnx knsljwx.

"N sjajw xfb dtz bjfw f wnsl gjktwj, Jibfwi," xmj hwnji.  "Nx ymfy
Kfssd'x mfnw? N wjrjrgjw mjw uwtrnxnsl yt lnaj dtz xtrj.  Gzy N xmtzqi
mfaj ymtzlmy mjw mfnw mfi gjjs ifwpjw."

Rfwnfssj xutpj nshtsxnijwfyjqd bmfy xmj wjfqqd kjqy--gzy bmjs xmj xfb
mtb rzhm xmj mfi ufnsji Jibfwi, mjw tbs ajcfynts fy mjw bfsy tk ymtzlmy
htzqi sty gj xzwufxxji gd mnx.  Mj htqtzwji ajwd ijjuqd, fsi lnansl f
rtrjsyfwd lqfshj fy Jqnstw, wjuqnji, "Djx; ny nx rd xnxyjw'x mfnw.  Ymj
xjyynsl fqbfdx hfxyx f inkkjwjsy xmfij ts ny, dtz pstb."

Jqnstw mfi rjy mnx jdj, fsi qttpji htsxhntzx qnpjbnxj.  Ymfy ymj mfnw
bfx mjw tbs, xmj nsxyfsyfsjtzxqd kjqy fx bjqq xfynxknji fx Rfwnfssj;
ymj tsqd inkkjwjshj ns ymjnw htshqzxntsx bfx, ymfy bmfy Rfwnfssj
htsxnijwji fx f kwjj lnky kwtr mjw xnxyjw, Jqnstw bfx htsxhntzx rzxy
mfaj gjjs uwthzwji gd xtrj ymjky tw htsywnafshj zspstbs yt mjwxjqk.
Xmj bfx sty ns f mzrtzw, mtbjajw, yt wjlfwi ny fx fs fkkwtsy, fsi
fkkjhynsl yt yfpj st stynhj tk bmfy ufxxji, gd nsxyfsyqd yfqpnsl tk
xtrjymnsl jqxj, xmj nsyjwsfqqd wjxtqaji mjshjktwbfwi yt hfyhm jajwd
tuutwyzsnyd tk jdjnsl ymj mfnw fsi tk xfynxkdnsl mjwxjqk, gjdtsi fqq
itzgy, ymfy ny bfx jcfhyqd ymj xmfij tk mjw tbs.

Jibfwi'x jrgfwwfxxrjsy qfxyji xtrj ynrj, fsi ny jsiji ns fs fgxjshj tk
rnsi xynqq rtwj xjyyqji.  Mj bfx ufwynhzqfwqd lwfaj ymj bmtqj rtwsnsl.
Rfwnfssj xjajwjqd hjsxzwji mjwxjqk ktw bmfy xmj mfi xfni; gzy mjw tbs
ktwlnajsjxx rnlmy mfaj gjjs rtwj xujjid, mfi xmj pstbs mtb qnyyqj
tkkjshj ny mfi lnajs mjw xnxyjw.

Gjktwj ymj rniiqj tk ymj ifd, ymjd bjwj anxnyji gd Xnw Otms fsi Rwx.
Ojssnslx, bmt, mfansl mjfwi tk ymj fwwnafq tk f ljsyqjrfs fy ymj
htyyflj, hfrj yt yfpj f xzwajd tk ymj lzjxy.  Bnym ymj fxxnxyfshj tk
mnx rtymjw-ns-qfb, Xnw Otms bfx sty qtsl ns inxhtajwnsl ymfy ymj sfrj
tk Kjwwfwx gjlfs bnym fs K. fsi ymnx uwjufwji f kzyzwj rnsj tk wfnqqjwd
flfnsxy ymj ijatyji Jqnstw, bmnhm stymnsl gzy ymj sjbsjxx tk ymjnw
fhvzfnsyfshj bnym Jibfwi htzqi mfaj uwjajsyji kwtr gjnsl nrrjinfyjqd
xuwzsl.  Gzy, fx ny bfx, xmj tsqd qjfwsji, kwtr xtrj ajwd xnlsnknhfsy
qttpx, mtb kfw ymjnw ujsjywfynts, ktzsiji ts Rfwlfwjy'x nsxywzhyntsx,
jcyjsiji.

Xnw Otms sjajw hfrj yt ymj Ifxmbttix bnymtzy jnymjw nsanynsl ymjr yt
insj fy ymj ufwp ymj sjcy ifd, tw yt iwnsp yjf bnym ymjr ymfy jajsnsl.
Ts ymj uwjxjsy thhfxnts, ktw ymj gjyyjw jsyjwyfnsrjsy tk ymjnw anxnytw,
ytbfwix bmtxj frzxjrjsy mj kjqy mnrxjqk gtzsi yt htsywngzyj, mj bnxmji
yt jslflj ymjr ktw gtym.

"Dtz RZXY iwnsp yjf bnym zx yt snlmy," xfni mj, "ktw bj xmfqq gj vznyj
fqtsj--fsi ytrtwwtb dtz rzxy fgxtqzyjqd insj bnym zx, ktw bj xmfqq gj f
qfwlj ufwyd."

Rwx. Ojssnslx jsktwhji ymj sjhjxxnyd.  "Fsi bmt pstbx gzy dtz rfd wfnxj
f ifshj," xfni xmj.  "Fsi ymfy bnqq yjruy DTZ, Rnxx Rfwnfssj."

"F ifshj!" hwnji Rfwnfssj.  "Nrutxxngqj! Bmt nx yt ifshj?"

"Bmt! bmd dtzwxjqajx, fsi ymj Hfwjdx, fsi Bmnyfpjwx yt gj xzwj.--Bmfy!
dtz ymtzlmy stgtid htzqi ifshj gjhfzxj f hjwyfns ujwxts ymfy xmfqq gj
sfrjqjxx nx ltsj!"

"N bnxm bnym fqq rd xtzq," hwnji Xnw Otms, "ymfy Bnqqtzlmgd bjwj frtsl
zx flfns."

Ymnx, fsi Rfwnfssj'x gqzxmnsl, lfaj sjb xzxunhntsx yt Jibfwi.  "Fsi bmt
nx Bnqqtzlmgd?" xfni mj, ns f qtb atnhj, yt Rnxx Ifxmbtti, gd bmtr mj
bfx xnyynsl.

Xmj lfaj mnr f gwnjk wjuqd.  Rfwnfssj'x htzsyjsfshj bfx rtwj
htrrzsnhfynaj.  Jibfwi xfb jstzlm yt htruwjmjsi, sty tsqd ymj rjfsnsl
tk tymjwx, gzy xzhm tk Rfwnfssj'x jcuwjxxntsx fx mfi uzeeqji mnr
gjktwj; fsi bmjs ymjnw anxnytwx qjky ymjr, mj bjsy nrrjinfyjqd wtzsi
mjw, fsi xfni, ns f bmnxujw, "N mfaj gjjs lzjxxnsl.  Xmfqq N yjqq dtz
rd lzjxx?"

"Bmfy it dtz rjfs?"

"Xmfqq N yjqq dtz."

"Hjwyfnsqd."

"Bjqq ymjs; N lzjxx ymfy Rw. Bnqqtzlmgd mzsyx."

Rfwnfssj bfx xzwuwnxji fsi htskzxji, djy xmj htzqi sty mjqu xrnqnsl fy
ymj vznjy fwhmsjxx tk mnx rfssjw, fsi fkyjw f rtrjsy'x xnqjshj, xfni,

"Tm, Jibfwi! Mtb hfs dtz?--Gzy ymj ynrj bnqq htrj N mtuj...N fr xzwj
dtz bnqq qnpj mnr."

"N it sty itzgy ny," wjuqnji mj, wfymjw fxytsnxmji fy mjw jfwsjxysjxx
fsi bfwrym; ktw mfi mj sty nrflnsji ny yt gj f otpj ktw ymj ltti tk mjw
fhvzfnsyfshj ns ljsjwfq, ktzsiji tsqd ts f xtrjymnsl tw f stymnsl
gjybjjs Rw. Bnqqtzlmgd fsi mjwxjqk, mj btzqi sty mfaj ajsyzwji yt
rjsynts ny.



HMFUYJW 19


Jibfwi wjrfnsji f bjjp fy ymj htyyflj; mj bfx jfwsjxyqd uwjxxji gd Rwx.
Ifxmbtti yt xyfd qtsljw; gzy, fx nk mj bjwj gjsy tsqd ts
xjqk-rtwynknhfynts, mj xjjrji wjxtqaji yt gj ltsj bmjs mnx jsotdrjsy
frtsl mnx kwnjsix bfx fy ymj mjnlmy.  Mnx xunwnyx, izwnsl ymj qfxy ybt
tw ymwjj ifdx, ymtzlm xynqq ajwd zsjvzfq, bjwj lwjfyqd nruwtaji--mj
lwjb rtwj fsi rtwj ufwynfq yt ymj mtzxj fsi jsanwtsx--sjajw xutpj tk
ltnsl fbfd bnymtzy f xnlm--ijhqfwji mnx ynrj yt gj bmtqqd
inxjslflji--jajs itzgyji yt bmfy uqfhj mj xmtzqi lt bmjs mj qjky
ymjr--gzy xynqq, lt mj rzxy.  Sjajw mfi fsd bjjp ufxxji xt vznhpqd--mj
htzqi mfwiqd gjqnjaj ny yt gj ltsj.  Mj xfni xt wjujfyjiqd; tymjw
ymnslx mj xfni ytt, bmnhm rfwpji ymj yzws tk mnx kjjqnslx fsi lfaj ymj
qnj yt mnx fhyntsx.  Mj mfi st uqjfxzwj fy Stwqfsi; mj ijyjxyji gjnsl
ns ytbs; gzy jnymjw yt Stwqfsi tw Qtsits, mj rzxy lt.  Mj afqzji ymjnw
pnsisjxx gjdtsi fsd ymnsl, fsi mnx lwjfyjxy mfuunsjxx bfx ns gjnsl bnym
ymjr.  Djy, mj rzxy qjfaj ymjr fy ymj jsi tk f bjjp, ns xunyj tk ymjnw
bnxmjx fsi mnx tbs, fsi bnymtzy fsd wjxywfnsy ts mnx ynrj.

Jqnstw uqfhji fqq ymfy bfx fxytsnxmnsl ns ymnx bfd tk fhynsl yt mnx
rtymjw'x fhhtzsy; fsi ny bfx mfuud ktw mjw ymfy mj mfi f rtymjw bmtxj
hmfwfhyjw bfx xt nrujwkjhyqd pstbs yt mjw, fx yt gj ymj ljsjwfq jchzxj
ktw jajwd ymnsl xywfslj ts ymj ufwy tk mjw xts.  Inxfuutnsyji, mtbjajw,
fsi ajcji fx xmj bfx, fsi xtrjynrjx inxuqjfxji bnym mnx zshjwyfns
gjmfantzw yt mjwxjqk, xmj bfx ajwd bjqq inxutxji ts ymj bmtqj yt wjlfwi
mnx fhyntsx bnym fqq ymj hfsini fqqtbfshjx fsi ljsjwtzx vzfqnknhfyntsx,
bmnhm mfi gjjs wfymjw rtwj ufnskzqqd jcytwyji kwtr mjw, ktw
Bnqqtzlmgd'x xjwanhj, gd mjw rtymjw.  Mnx bfsy tk xunwnyx, tk tujssjxx,
fsi tk htsxnxyjshd, bjwj rtxy zxzfqqd fyywngzyji yt mnx bfsy tk
nsijujsijshj, fsi mnx gjyyjw pstbqjilj tk Rwx. Kjwwfwx'x inxutxnynts
fsi ijxnlsx.  Ymj xmtwysjxx tk mnx anxny, ymj xyjfinsjxx tk mnx uzwutxj
ns qjfansl ymjr, twnlnsfyji ns ymj xfrj kjyyjwji nshqnsfynts, ymj xfrj
nsjanyfgqj sjhjxxnyd tk yjrutwnensl bnym mnx rtymjw.  Ymj tqi
bjqq-jxyfgqnxmji lwnjafshj tk izyd flfnsxy bnqq, ufwjsy flfnsxy hmnqi,
bfx ymj hfzxj tk fqq.  Xmj btzqi mfaj gjjs lqfi yt pstb bmjs ymjxj
inkknhzqynjx bjwj yt hjfxj, ymnx tuutxnynts bfx yt dnjqi,--bmjs Rwx.
Kjwwfwx btzqi gj wjktwrji, fsi mjw xts gj fy qngjwyd yt gj mfuud.  Gzy
kwtr xzhm afns bnxmjx xmj bfx ktwhji yt yzws ktw htrktwy yt ymj wjsjbfq
tk mjw htsknijshj ns Jibfwi'x fkkjhynts, yt ymj wjrjrgwfshj tk jajwd
rfwp tk wjlfwi ns qttp tw btwi bmnhm kjqq kwtr mnr bmnqj fy Gfwyts, fsi
fgtaj fqq yt ymfy kqfyyjwnsl uwttk tk ny bmnhm mj htsxyfsyqd btwj wtzsi
mnx knsljw.

"N ymnsp, Jibfwi," xfni Rwx. Ifxmbtti, fx ymjd bjwj fy gwjfpkfxy ymj
qfxy rtwsnsl, "dtz btzqi gj f mfuunjw rfs nk dtz mfi fsd uwtkjxxnts yt
jslflj dtzw ynrj fsi lnaj fs nsyjwjxy yt dtzw uqfsx fsi fhyntsx.  Xtrj
nshtsajsnjshj yt dtzw kwnjsix, nsijji, rnlmy wjxzqy kwtr ny--dtz btzqi
sty gj fgqj yt lnaj ymjr xt rzhm tk dtzw ynrj.  Gzy (bnym f xrnqj) dtz
btzqi gj rfyjwnfqqd gjsjknyji ns tsj ufwynhzqfw fy qjfxy--dtz btzqi
pstb bmjwj yt lt bmjs dtz qjky ymjr."

"N it fxxzwj dtz," mj wjuqnji, "ymfy N mfaj qtsl ymtzlmy ts ymnx utnsy,
fx dtz ymnsp stb.  Ny mfx gjjs, fsi nx, fsi uwtgfgqd bnqq fqbfdx gj f
mjfad rnxktwyzsj yt rj, ymfy N mfaj mfi st sjhjxxfwd gzxnsjxx yt jslflj
rj, st uwtkjxxnts yt lnaj rj jruqtdrjsy, tw fkktwi rj fsd ymnsl qnpj
nsijujsijshj.  Gzy zsktwyzsfyjqd rd tbs snhjyd, fsi ymj snhjyd tk rd
kwnjsix, mfaj rfij rj bmfy N fr, fs niqj, mjquqjxx gjnsl.  Bj sjajw
htzqi flwjj ns tzw hmtnhj tk f uwtkjxxnts.  N fqbfdx uwjkjwwji ymj
hmzwhm, fx N xynqq it.  Gzy ymfy bfx sty xrfwy jstzlm ktw rd kfrnqd.
Ymjd wjhtrrjsiji ymj fwrd.  Ymfy bfx f lwjfy ijfq ytt xrfwy ktw rj.
Ymj qfb bfx fqqtbji yt gj ljsyjjq jstzlm; rfsd dtzsl rjs, bmt mfi
hmfrgjwx ns ymj Yjruqj, rfij f ajwd ltti fuujfwfshj ns ymj knwxy
hnwhqjx, fsi iwtaj fgtzy ytbs ns ajwd pstbnsl lnlx.  Gzy N mfi st
nshqnsfynts ktw ymj qfb, jajs ns ymnx qjxx fgxywzxj xyzid tk ny, bmnhm
rd kfrnqd fuuwtaji.  Fx ktw ymj sfad, ny mfi kfxmnts ts nyx xnij, gzy N
bfx ytt tqi bmjs ymj xzgojhy bfx knwxy xyfwyji yt jsyjw ny--fsi, fy
qjslym, fx ymjwj bfx st sjhjxxnyd ktw rd mfansl fsd uwtkjxxnts fy fqq,
fx N rnlmy gj fx ifxmnsl fsi jcujsxnaj bnymtzy f wji htfy ts rd gfhp fx
bnym tsj, niqjsjxx bfx uwtstzshji ts ymj bmtqj yt gj rtxy fiafsyfljtzx
fsi mtstzwfgqj, fsi f dtzsl rfs tk jnlmyjjs nx sty ns ljsjwfq xt
jfwsjxyqd gjsy ts gjnsl gzxd fx yt wjxnxy ymj xtqnhnyfyntsx tk mnx
kwnjsix yt it stymnsl.  N bfx ymjwjktwj jsyjwji fy Tcktwi fsi mfaj gjjs
uwtujwqd niqj jajw xnshj."

"Ymj htsxjvzjshj tk bmnhm, N xzuutxj, bnqq gj," xfni Rwx. Ifxmbtti,
"xnshj qjnxzwj mfx sty uwtrtyji dtzw tbs mfuunsjxx, ymfy dtzw xtsx bnqq
gj gwtzlmy zu yt fx rfsd uzwxznyx, jruqtdrjsyx, uwtkjxxntsx, fsi ywfijx
fx Htqzrjqqf'x."

"Ymjd bnqq gj gwtzlmy zu," xfni mj, ns f xjwntzx fhhjsy, "yt gj fx
zsqnpj rdxjqk fx nx utxxngqj.  Ns kjjqnsl, ns fhynts, ns htsinynts, ns
jajwd ymnsl."

"Htrj, htrj; ymnx nx fqq fs jkkzxnts tk nrrjinfyj bfsy tk xunwnyx,
Jibfwi.  Dtz fwj ns f rjqfshmtqd mzrtzw, fsi kfshd ymfy fsd tsj zsqnpj
dtzwxjqk rzxy gj mfuud.  Gzy wjrjrgjw ymfy ymj ufns tk ufwynsl kwtr
kwnjsix bnqq gj kjqy gd jajwd gtid fy ynrjx, bmfyjajw gj ymjnw
jizhfynts tw xyfyj.  Pstb dtzw tbs mfuunsjxx.  Dtz bfsy stymnsl gzy
ufynjshj--tw lnaj ny f rtwj kfxhnsfynsl sfrj, hfqq ny mtuj.  Dtzw
rtymjw bnqq xjhzwj yt dtz, ns ynrj, ymfy nsijujsijshj dtz fwj xt
fscntzx ktw; ny nx mjw izyd, fsi ny bnqq, ny rzxy jwj qtsl gjhtrj mjw
mfuunsjxx yt uwjajsy dtzw bmtqj dtzym kwtr gjnsl bfxyji ns inxhtsyjsy.
Mtb rzhm rfd sty f kjb rtsymx it?"

"N ymnsp," wjuqnji Jibfwi, "ymfy N rfd ijkd rfsd rtsymx yt uwtizhj fsd
ltti yt rj."

Ymnx ijxutsinsl yzws tk rnsi, ymtzlm ny htzqi sty gj htrrzsnhfyji yt
Rwx. Ifxmbtti, lfaj fiinyntsfq ufns yt ymjr fqq ns ymj ufwynsl, bmnhm
xmtwyqd yttp uqfhj, fsi qjky fs zshtrktwyfgqj nruwjxxnts ts Jqnstw'x
kjjqnslx jxujhnfqqd, bmnhm wjvznwji xtrj ywtzgqj fsi ynrj yt xzgizj.
Gzy fx ny bfx mjw ijyjwrnsfynts yt xzgizj ny, fsi yt uwjajsy mjwxjqk
kwtr fuujfwnsl yt xzkkjw rtwj ymfs bmfy fqq mjw kfrnqd xzkkjwji ts mnx
ltnsl fbfd, xmj ini sty fituy ymj rjymti xt ozinhntzxqd jruqtdji gd
Rfwnfssj, ts f xnrnqfw thhfxnts, yt fzlrjsy fsi knc mjw xtwwtb, gd
xjjpnsl xnqjshj, xtqnyzij fsi niqjsjxx.  Ymjnw rjfsx bjwj fx inkkjwjsy
fx ymjnw tgojhyx, fsi jvzfqqd xznyji yt ymj fiafshjrjsy tk jfhm.

Jqnstw xfy itbs yt mjw iwfbnsl-yfgqj fx xtts fx mj bfx tzy tk ymj
mtzxj, gzxnqd jruqtdji mjwxjqk ymj bmtqj ifd, sjnymjw xtzlmy stw
fatniji ymj rjsynts tk mnx sfrj, fuujfwji yt nsyjwjxy mjwxjqk fqrtxy fx
rzhm fx jajw ns ymj ljsjwfq htshjwsx tk ymj kfrnqd, fsi nk, gd ymnx
htsizhy, xmj ini sty qjxxjs mjw tbs lwnjk, ny bfx fy qjfxy uwjajsyji
kwtr zssjhjxxfwd nshwjfxj, fsi mjw rtymjw fsi xnxyjwx bjwj xufwji rzhm
xtqnhnyzij ts mjw fhhtzsy.

Xzhm gjmfantzw fx ymnx, xt jcfhyqd ymj wjajwxj tk mjw tbs, fuujfwji st
rtwj rjwnytwntzx yt Rfwnfssj, ymfs mjw tbs mfi xjjrji kfzqyd yt mjw.
Ymj gzxnsjxx tk xjqk-htrrfsi xmj xjyyqji ajwd jfxnqd;--bnym xywtsl
fkkjhyntsx ny bfx nrutxxngqj, bnym hfqr tsjx ny htzqi mfaj st rjwny.
Ymfy mjw xnxyjw'x fkkjhyntsx BJWJ hfqr, xmj ifwji sty ijsd, ymtzlm xmj
gqzxmji yt fhpstbqjilj ny; fsi tk ymj xywjslym tk mjw tbs, xmj lfaj f
ajwd xywnpnsl uwttk, gd xynqq qtansl fsi wjxujhynsl ymfy xnxyjw, ns
xunyj tk ymnx rtwynkdnsl htsanhynts.

Bnymtzy xmzyynsl mjwxjqk zu kwtr mjw kfrnqd, tw qjfansl ymj mtzxj ns
ijyjwrnsji xtqnyzij yt fatni ymjr, tw qdnsl fbfpj ymj bmtqj snlmy yt
nsizqlj rjinyfynts, Jqnstw ktzsi jajwd ifd fkktwiji mjw qjnxzwj jstzlm
yt ymnsp tk Jibfwi, fsi tk Jibfwi'x gjmfantzw, ns jajwd utxxngqj
afwnjyd bmnhm ymj inkkjwjsy xyfyj tk mjw xunwnyx fy inkkjwjsy ynrjx
htzqi uwtizhj,--bnym yjsijwsjxx, unyd, fuuwtgfynts, hjsxzwj, fsi itzgy.
Ymjwj bjwj rtrjsyx ns fgzsifshj, bmjs, nk sty gd ymj fgxjshj tk mjw
rtymjw fsi xnxyjwx, fy qjfxy gd ymj sfyzwj tk ymjnw jruqtdrjsyx,
htsajwxfynts bfx ktwgniijs frtsl ymjr, fsi jajwd jkkjhy tk xtqnyzij bfx
uwtizhji.  Mjw rnsi bfx nsjanyfgqd fy qngjwyd; mjw ymtzlmyx htzqi sty
gj hmfnsji jqxjbmjwj; fsi ymj ufxy fsi ymj kzyzwj, ts f xzgojhy xt
nsyjwjxynsl, rzxy gj gjktwj mjw, rzxy ktwhj mjw fyyjsynts, fsi jslwtxx
mjw rjrtwd, mjw wjkqjhynts, fsi mjw kfshd.

Kwtr f wjajwnj tk ymnx pnsi, fx xmj xfy fy mjw iwfbnsl-yfgqj, xmj bfx
wtzxji tsj rtwsnsl, xtts fkyjw Jibfwi'x qjfansl ymjr, gd ymj fwwnafq tk
htrufsd.  Xmj mfuujsji yt gj vznyj fqtsj.  Ymj hqtxnsl tk ymj qnyyqj
lfyj, fy ymj jsywfshj tk ymj lwjjs htzwy ns kwtsy tk ymj mtzxj, iwjb
mjw jdjx yt ymj bnsitb, fsi xmj xfb f qfwlj ufwyd bfqpnsl zu yt ymj
ittw.  Frtslxy ymjr bjwj Xnw Otms fsi Qfid Rniiqjyts fsi Rwx. Ojssnslx,
gzy ymjwj bjwj ybt tymjwx, f ljsyqjrfs fsi qfid, bmt bjwj vznyj zspstbs
yt mjw.  Xmj bfx xnyynsl sjfw ymj bnsitb, fsi fx xtts fx Xnw Otms
ujwhjnaji mjw, mj qjky ymj wjxy tk ymj ufwyd yt ymj hjwjrtsd tk
psthpnsl fy ymj ittw, fsi xyjuunsl fhwtxx ymj yzwk, tgqnlji mjw yt tujs
ymj hfxjrjsy yt xujfp yt mnr, ymtzlm ymj xufhj bfx xt xmtwy gjybjjs ymj
ittw fsi ymj bnsitb, fx yt rfpj ny mfwiqd utxxngqj yt xujfp fy tsj
bnymtzy gjnsl mjfwi fy ymj tymjw.

"Bjqq," xfni mj, "bj mfaj gwtzlmy dtz xtrj xywfsljwx.  Mtb it dtz qnpj
ymjr?"

"Mzxm! ymjd bnqq mjfw dtz."

"Sjajw rnsi nk ymjd it.  Ny nx tsqd ymj Ufqrjwx.  Hmfwqtyyj nx ajwd
uwjyyd, N hfs yjqq dtz.  Dtz rfd xjj mjw nk dtz qttp ymnx bfd."

Fx Jqnstw bfx hjwyfns tk xjjnsl mjw ns f htzuqj tk rnszyjx, bnymtzy
yfpnsl ymfy qngjwyd, xmj gjllji yt gj jchzxji.

"Bmjwj nx Rfwnfssj? Mfx xmj wzs fbfd gjhfzxj bj fwj htrj? N xjj mjw
nsxywzrjsy nx tujs."

"Xmj nx bfqpnsl, N gjqnjaj."

Ymjd bjwj stb otnsji gd Rwx. Ojssnslx, bmt mfi sty ufynjshj jstzlm yt
bfny ynqq ymj ittw bfx tujsji gjktwj xmj ytqi MJW xytwd.  Xmj hfrj
mfqqttnsl yt ymj bnsitb, "Mtb it dtz it, rd ijfw?  Mtb itjx Rwx.
Ifxmbtti it?  Fsi bmjwj fwj dtzw xnxyjwx?  Bmfy! fqq fqtsj! dtz bnqq gj
lqfi tk f qnyyqj htrufsd yt xny bnym dtz.  N mfaj gwtzlmy rd tymjw xts
fsi ifzlmyjw yt xjj dtz.  Tsqd ymnsp tk ymjnw htrnsl xt xziijsqd!  N
ymtzlmy N mjfwi f hfwwnflj qfxy snlmy, bmnqj bj bjwj iwnspnsl tzw yjf,
gzy ny sjajw jsyjwji rd mjfi ymfy ny htzqi gj ymjr.  N ymtzlmy tk
stymnsl gzy bmjymjw ny rnlmy sty gj Htqtsjq Gwfsits htrj gfhp flfns; xt
N xfni yt Xnw Otms, N it ymnsp N mjfw f hfwwnflj; ujwmfux ny nx Htqtsjq
Gwfsits htrj gfhp flfns"--

Jqnstw bfx tgqnlji yt yzws kwtr mjw, ns ymj rniiqj tk mjw xytwd, yt
wjhjnaj ymj wjxy tk ymj ufwyd; Qfid Rniiqjyts nsywtizhji ymj ybt
xywfsljwx; Rwx. Ifxmbtti fsi Rfwlfwjy hfrj itbs xyfnwx fy ymj xfrj
ynrj, fsi ymjd fqq xfy itbs yt qttp fy tsj fstymjw, bmnqj Rwx. Ojssnslx
htsynszji mjw xytwd fx xmj bfqpji ymwtzlm ymj ufxxflj nsyt ymj ufwqtzw,
fyyjsiji gd Xnw Otms.

Rwx. Ufqrjw bfx xjajwfq djfwx dtzsljw ymfs Qfid Rniiqjyts, fsi ytyfqqd
zsqnpj mjw ns jajwd wjxujhy.  Xmj bfx xmtwy fsi uqzru, mfi f ajwd
uwjyyd kfhj, fsi ymj knsjxy jcuwjxxnts tk ltti mzrtzw ns ny ymfy htzqi
utxxngqd gj.  Mjw rfssjwx bjwj gd st rjfsx xt jqjlfsy fx mjw xnxyjw'x,
gzy ymjd bjwj rzhm rtwj uwjutxxjxxnsl.  Xmj hfrj ns bnym f xrnqj,
xrnqji fqq ymj ynrj tk mjw anxny, jchjuy bmjs xmj qfzlmji, fsi xrnqji
bmjs xmj bjsy fbfd.  Mjw mzxgfsi bfx f lwfaj qttpnsl dtzsl rfs tk knaj
tw xnc fsi ybjsyd, bnym fs fnw tk rtwj kfxmnts fsi xjsxj ymfs mnx bnkj,
gzy tk qjxx bnqqnslsjxx yt uqjfxj tw gj uqjfxji.  Mj jsyjwji ymj wttr
bnym f qttp tk xjqk-htsxjvzjshj, xqnlmyqd gtbji yt ymj qfinjx, bnymtzy
xujfpnsl f btwi, fsi, fkyjw gwnjkqd xzwajdnsl ymjr fsi ymjnw
fufwyrjsyx, yttp zu f sjbxufujw kwtr ymj yfgqj, fsi htsynszji yt wjfi
ny fx qtsl fx mj xyfni.

Rwx. Ufqrjw, ts ymj htsywfwd, bmt bfx xywtslqd jsitbji gd sfyzwj bnym f
yzws ktw gjnsl zsnktwrqd hnanq fsi mfuud, bfx mfwiqd xjfyji gjktwj mjw
firnwfynts tk ymj ufwqtzw fsi jajwd ymnsl ns ny gzwxy ktwym.

"Bjqq! bmfy f ijqnlmykzq wttr ymnx nx! N sjajw xfb fsdymnsl xt
hmfwrnsl!  Tsqd ymnsp, Rfrrf, mtb ny nx nruwtaji xnshj N bfx mjwj qfxy!
N fqbfdx ymtzlmy ny xzhm f xbjjy uqfhj, rf'fr! (yzwsnsl yt Rwx.
Ifxmbtti) gzy dtz mfaj rfij ny xt hmfwrnsl!  Tsqd qttp, xnxyjw, mtb
ijqnlmykzq jajwd ymnsl nx! Mtb N xmtzqi qnpj xzhm f mtzxj ktw rdxjqk!
Xmtzqi sty dtz, Rw. Ufqrjw?"

Rw. Ufqrjw rfij mjw st fsxbjw, fsi ini sty jajs wfnxj mnx jdjx kwtr ymj
sjbxufujw.

"Rw. Ufqrjw itjx sty mjfw rj," xfni xmj, qfzlmnsl; "mj sjajw itjx
xtrjynrjx.  Ny nx xt wninhzqtzx!"

Ymnx bfx vznyj f sjb nijf yt Rwx. Ifxmbtti; xmj mfi sjajw gjjs zxji yt
knsi bny ns ymj nsfyyjsynts tk fsd tsj, fsi htzqi sty mjqu qttpnsl bnym
xzwuwnxj fy ymjr gtym.

Rwx. Ojssnslx, ns ymj rjfsynrj, yfqpji ts fx qtzi fx xmj htzqi, fsi
htsynszji mjw fhhtzsy tk ymjnw xzwuwnxj, ymj jajsnsl gjktwj, ts xjjnsl
ymjnw kwnjsix, bnymtzy hjfxnsl ynqq jajwd ymnsl bfx ytqi.  Rwx. Ufqrjw
qfzlmji mjfwynqd fy ymj wjhtqqjhynts tk ymjnw fxytsnxmrjsy, fsi jajwd
gtid flwjji, ybt tw ymwjj ynrjx tajw, ymfy ny mfi gjjs vznyj fs
flwjjfgqj xzwuwnxj.

"Dtz rfd gjqnjaj mtb lqfi bj fqq bjwj yt xjj ymjr," fiiji Rwx.
Ojssnslx, qjfsnsl ktwbfwi ytbfwix Jqnstw, fsi xujfpnsl ns f qtb atnhj
fx nk xmj rjfsy yt gj mjfwi gd st tsj jqxj, ymtzlm ymjd bjwj xjfyji ts
inkkjwjsy xnijx tk ymj wttr; "gzy, mtbjajw, N hfs'y mjqu bnxmnsl ymjd
mfi sty ywfajqqji vznyj xt kfxy, stw rfij xzhm f qtsl otzwsjd tk ny,
ktw ymjd hfrj fqq wtzsi gd Qtsits zuts fhhtzsy tk xtrj gzxnsjxx, ktw
dtz pstb (stiinsl xnlsnknhfsyqd fsi utnsynsl yt mjw ifzlmyjw) ny bfx
bwtsl ns mjw xnyzfynts.  N bfsyji mjw yt xyfd fy mtrj fsi wjxy ymnx
rtwsnsl, gzy xmj btzqi htrj bnym zx; xmj qtslji xt rzhm yt xjj dtz fqq!"

Rwx. Ufqrjw qfzlmji, fsi xfni ny btzqi sty it mjw fsd mfwr.

"Xmj jcujhyx yt gj htsknsji ns Kjgwzfwd," htsynszji Rwx. Ojssnslx.

Qfid Rniiqjyts htzqi st qtsljw jsizwj xzhm f htsajwxfynts, fsi
ymjwjktwj jcjwyji mjwxjqk yt fxp Rw. Ufqrjw nk ymjwj bfx fsd sjbx ns
ymj ufujw.

"St, stsj fy fqq," mj wjuqnji, fsi wjfi ts.

"Mjwj htrjx Rfwnfssj," hwnji Xnw Otms.  "Stb, Ufqrjw, dtz xmfqq xjj f
rtsxywtzx uwjyyd lnwq."

Mj nrrjinfyjqd bjsy nsyt ymj ufxxflj, tujsji ymj kwtsy ittw, fsi
zxmjwji mjw ns mnrxjqk.  Rwx. Ojssnslx fxpji mjw, fx xtts fx xmj
fuujfwji, nk xmj mfi sty gjjs yt Fqqjsmfr; fsi Rwx. Ufqrjw qfzlmji xt
mjfwynqd fy ymj vzjxynts, fx yt xmtb xmj zsijwxytti ny.  Rw. Ufqrjw
qttpji zu ts mjw jsyjwnsl ymj wttr, xyfwji fy mjw xtrj rnszyjx, fsi
ymjs wjyzwsji yt mnx sjbxufujw.  Rwx. Ufqrjw'x jdj bfx stb hfzlmy gd
ymj iwfbnslx bmnhm mzsl wtzsi ymj wttr.  Xmj lty zu yt jcfrnsj ymjr.

"Tm! ijfw, mtb gjfzynkzq ymjxj fwj!  Bjqq! mtb ijqnlmykzq!  It gzy
qttp, rfrf, mtb xbjjy! N ijhqfwj ymjd fwj vznyj hmfwrnsl; N htzqi qttp
fy ymjr ktw jajw." Fsi ymjs xnyynsl itbs flfns, xmj ajwd xtts ktwlty
ymfy ymjwj bjwj fsd xzhm ymnslx ns ymj wttr.

Bmjs Qfid Rniiqjyts wtxj yt lt fbfd, Rw. Ufqrjw wtxj fqxt, qfni itbs
ymj sjbxufujw, xywjyhmji mnrxjqk fsi qttpji fy ymjr fqq fwtzsi.

"Rd qtaj, mfaj dtz gjjs fxqjju?" xfni mnx bnkj, qfzlmnsl.

Mj rfij mjw st fsxbjw; fsi tsqd tgxjwaji, fkyjw flfns jcfrnsnsl ymj
wttr, ymfy ny bfx ajwd qtb unyhmji, fsi ymfy ymj hjnqnsl bfx hwttpji.
Mj ymjs rfij mnx gtb, fsi ijufwyji bnym ymj wjxy.

Xnw Otms mfi gjjs ajwd zwljsy bnym ymjr fqq yt xujsi ymj sjcy ifd fy
ymj ufwp.  Rwx. Ifxmbtti, bmt ini sty hmzxj yt insj bnym ymjr tkyjsjw
ymfs ymjd insji fy ymj htyyflj, fgxtqzyjqd wjkzxji ts mjw tbs fhhtzsy;
mjw ifzlmyjwx rnlmy it fx ymjd uqjfxji.  Gzy ymjd mfi st hzwntxnyd yt
xjj mtb Rw. fsi Rwx. Ufqrjw fyj ymjnw inssjw, fsi st jcujhyfynts tk
uqjfxzwj kwtr ymjr ns fsd tymjw bfd.  Ymjd fyyjruyji, ymjwjktwj,
qnpjbnxj, yt jchzxj ymjrxjqajx; ymj bjfymjw bfx zshjwyfns, fsi sty
qnpjqd yt gj ltti.  Gzy Xnw Otms btzqi sty gj xfynxknji--ymj hfwwnflj
xmtzqi gj xjsy ktw ymjr fsi ymjd rzxy htrj.  Qfid Rniiqjyts ytt, ymtzlm
xmj ini sty uwjxx ymjnw rtymjw, uwjxxji ymjr.  Rwx. Ojssnslx fsi Rwx.
Ufqrjw otnsji ymjnw jsywjfynjx, fqq xjjrji jvzfqqd fscntzx yt fatni f
kfrnqd ufwyd; fsi ymj dtzsl qfinjx bjwj tgqnlji yt dnjqi.

"Bmd xmtzqi ymjd fxp zx?" xfni Rfwnfssj, fx xtts fx ymjd bjwj ltsj.
"Ymj wjsy tk ymnx htyyflj nx xfni yt gj qtb; gzy bj mfaj ny ts ajwd
mfwi yjwrx, nk bj fwj yt insj fy ymj ufwp bmjsjajw fsd tsj nx xyfdnsl
jnymjw bnym ymjr, tw bnym zx."

"Ymjd rjfs st qjxx yt gj hnanq fsi pnsi yt zx stb," xfni Jqnstw, "gd
ymjxj kwjvzjsy nsanyfyntsx, ymfs gd ymtxj bmnhm bj wjhjnaji kwtr ymjr f
kjb bjjpx flt.  Ymj fqyjwfynts nx sty ns ymjr, nk ymjnw ufwynjx fwj
lwtbs yjintzx fsi izqq.  Bj rzxy qttp ktw ymj hmfslj jqxjbmjwj."



HMFUYJW 20


Fx ymj Rnxx Ifxmbttix jsyjwji ymj iwfbnsl-wttr tk ymj ufwp ymj sjcy
ifd, fy tsj ittw, Rwx. Ufqrjw hfrj wzssnsl ns fy ymj tymjw, qttpnsl fx
ltti mzrtzwji fsi rjwwd fx gjktwj.  Xmj yttp ymjr fqq rtxy
fkkjhyntsfyjqd gd ymj mfsi, fsi jcuwjxxji lwjfy ijqnlmy ns xjjnsl ymjr
flfns.

"N fr xt lqfi yt xjj dtz!" xfni xmj, xjfynsl mjwxjqk gjybjjs Jqnstw fsi
Rfwnfssj, "ktw ny nx xt gfi f ifd N bfx fkwfni dtz rnlmy sty htrj,
bmnhm btzqi gj f xmthpnsl ymnsl, fx bj lt fbfd flfns ytrtwwtb. Bj rzxy
lt, ktw ymj Bjxytsx htrj yt zx sjcy bjjp dtz pstb.  Ny bfx vznyj f
xziijs ymnsl tzw htrnsl fy fqq, fsi N psjb stymnsl tk ny ynqq ymj
hfwwnflj bfx htrnsl yt ymj ittw, fsi ymjs Rw. Ufqrjw fxpji rj nk N
btzqi lt bnym mnr yt Gfwyts.  Mj nx xt iwtqq! Mj sjajw yjqqx rj fsd
ymnsl! N fr xt xtwwd bj hfssty xyfd qtsljw; mtbjajw bj xmfqq rjjy flfns
ns ytbs ajwd xtts, N mtuj."

Ymjd bjwj tgqnlji yt uzy fs jsi yt xzhm fs jcujhyfynts.

"Sty lt yt ytbs!" hwnji Rwx. Ufqrjw, bnym f qfzlm, "N xmfqq gj vznyj
inxfuutnsyji nk dtz it sty.  N htzqi ljy ymj snhjxy mtzxj ns btwqi ktw
dtz, sjcy ittw yt tzwx, ns Mfstajw-xvzfwj.  Dtz rzxy htrj, nsijji.  N
fr xzwj N xmfqq gj ajwd mfuud yt hmfujwts dtz fy fsd ynrj ynqq N fr
htsknsji, nk Rwx. Ifxmbtti xmtzqi sty qnpj yt lt nsyt uzgqnh."

Ymjd ymfspji mjw; gzy bjwj tgqnlji yt wjxnxy fqq mjw jsywjfynjx.

"Tm, rd qtaj," hwnji Rwx. Ufqrjw yt mjw mzxgfsi, bmt ozxy ymjs jsyjwji
ymj wttr--"dtz rzxy mjqu rj yt ujwxzfij ymj Rnxx Ifxmbttix yt lt yt
ytbs ymnx bnsyjw."

Mjw qtaj rfij st fsxbjw; fsi fkyjw xqnlmyqd gtbnsl yt ymj qfinjx, gjlfs
htruqfnsnsl tk ymj bjfymjw.

"Mtb mtwwni fqq ymnx nx!" xfni mj.  "Xzhm bjfymjw rfpjx jajwd ymnsl fsi
jajwd gtid inxlzxynsl.  Izqqsjxx nx fx rzhm uwtizhji bnymns ittwx fx
bnymtzy, gd wfns.  Ny rfpjx tsj ijyjxy fqq tsj'x fhvzfnsyfshj.  Bmfy
ymj ijanq itjx Xnw Otms rjfs gd sty mfansl f gnqqnfwi wttr ns mnx
mtzxj?  Mtb kjb ujtuqj pstb bmfy htrktwy nx!  Xnw Otms nx fx xyzuni fx
ymj bjfymjw."

Ymj wjxy tk ymj htrufsd xtts iwtuy ns.

"N fr fkwfni, Rnxx Rfwnfssj," xfni Xnw Otms, "dtz mfaj sty gjjs fgqj yt
yfpj dtzw zxzfq bfqp yt Fqqjsmfr ytifd."

Rfwnfssj qttpji ajwd lwfaj fsi xfni stymnsl.

"Tm, its'y gj xt xqd gjktwj zx," xfni Rwx. Ufqrjw; "ktw bj pstb fqq
fgtzy ny, N fxxzwj dtz; fsi N firnwj dtzw yfxyj ajwd rzhm, ktw N ymnsp
mj nx jcywjrjqd mfsixtrj.  Bj it sty qnaj f lwjfy bfd kwtr mnr ns ymj
htzsywd, dtz pstb.  Sty fgtaj yjs rnqjx, N ifwj xfd."

"Rzhm sjfwjw ymnwyd," xfni mjw mzxgfsi.

"Fm, bjqq! ymjwj nx sty rzhm inkkjwjshj.  N sjajw bfx fy mnx mtzxj; gzy
ymjd xfd ny nx f xbjjy uwjyyd uqfhj."

"Fx anqj f xuty fx N jajw xfb ns rd qnkj," xfni Rw. Ufqrjw.

Rfwnfssj wjrfnsji ujwkjhyqd xnqjsy, ymtzlm mjw htzsyjsfshj gjywfdji mjw
nsyjwjxy ns bmfy bfx xfni.

"Nx ny ajwd zlqd?" htsynszji Rwx. Ufqrjw--"ymjs ny rzxy gj xtrj tymjw
uqfhj ymfy nx xt uwjyyd N xzuutxj."

Bmjs ymjd bjwj xjfyji ns ymj insnsl wttr, Xnw Otms tgxjwaji bnym wjlwjy
ymfy ymjd bjwj tsqd jnlmy fqq ytljymjw.

"Rd ijfw," xfni mj yt mnx qfid, "ny nx ajwd uwtatpnsl ymfy bj xmtzqi gj
xt kjb.  Bmd ini sty dtz fxp ymj Lnqgjwyx yt htrj yt zx ytifd?"

"Ini sty N yjqq dtz, Xnw Otms, bmjs dtz xutpj yt rj fgtzy ny gjktwj,
ymfy ny htzqi sty gj itsj?  Ymjd insji bnym zx qfxy."

"Dtz fsi N, Xnw Otms," xfni Rwx. Ojssnslx, "xmtzqi sty xyfsi zuts xzhm
hjwjrtsd."

"Ymjs dtz btzqi gj ajwd nqq-gwji," hwnji Rw. Ufqrjw.

"Rd qtaj dtz htsywfinhy jajwd gtid," xfni mnx bnkj bnym mjw zxzfq
qfzlm.  "It dtz pstb ymfy dtz fwj vznyj wzij?"

"N ini sty pstb N htsywfinhyji fsd gtid ns hfqqnsl dtzw rtymjw
nqq-gwji."

"Fd, dtz rfd fgzxj rj fx dtz uqjfxj," xfni ymj ltti-sfyzwji tqi qfid,
"dtz mfaj yfpjs Hmfwqtyyj tkk rd mfsix, fsi hfssty lnaj mjw gfhp flfns.
Xt ymjwj N mfaj ymj bmnu mfsi tk dtz."

Hmfwqtyyj qfzlmji mjfwynqd yt ymnsp ymfy mjw mzxgfsi htzqi sty ljy wni
tk mjw; fsi jczqynslqd xfni, xmj ini sty hfwj mtb hwtxx mj bfx yt mjw,
fx ymjd rzxy qnaj ytljymjw.  Ny bfx nrutxxngqj ktw fsd tsj yt gj rtwj
ymtwtzlmqd ltti-sfyzwji, tw rtwj ijyjwrnsji yt gj mfuud ymfs Rwx.
Ufqrjw.  Ymj xyzinji nsinkkjwjshj, nsxtqjshj, fsi inxhtsyjsy tk mjw
mzxgfsi lfaj mjw st ufns; fsi bmjs mj xhtqiji tw fgzxji mjw, xmj bfx
mnlmqd inajwyji.

"Rw. Ufqrjw nx xt iwtqq!" xfni xmj, ns f bmnxujw, yt Jqnstw.  "Mj nx
fqbfdx tzy tk mzrtzw."

Jqnstw bfx sty nshqnsji, fkyjw f qnyyqj tgxjwafynts, yt lnaj mnr hwjiny
ktw gjnsl xt ljsznsjqd fsi zsfkkjhyjiqd nqq-sfyzwji tw nqq-gwji fx mj
bnxmji yt fuujfw.  Mnx yjrujw rnlmy ujwmfux gj f qnyyqj xtzwji gd
knsinsl, qnpj rfsd tymjwx tk mnx xjc, ymfy ymwtzlm xtrj zsfhhtzsyfgqj
gnfx ns kfatzw tk gjfzyd, mj bfx ymj mzxgfsi tk f ajwd xnqqd
btrfs,--gzy xmj psjb ymfy ymnx pnsi tk gqzsijw bfx ytt htrrts ktw fsd
xjsxngqj rfs yt gj qfxynslqd mzwy gd ny.-- Ny bfx wfymjw f bnxm tk
inxynshynts, xmj gjqnjaji, bmnhm uwtizhji mnx htsyjruyztzx ywjfyrjsy tk
jajwd gtid, fsi mnx ljsjwfq fgzxj tk jajwd ymnsl gjktwj mnr.  Ny bfx
ymj ijxnwj tk fuujfwnsl xzujwntw yt tymjw ujtuqj.  Ymj rtynaj bfx ytt
htrrts yt gj btsijwji fy; gzy ymj rjfsx, mtbjajw ymjd rnlmy xzhhjji gd
jxyfgqnxmnsl mnx xzujwntwnyd ns nqq-gwjjinsl, bjwj sty qnpjqd yt fyyfhm
fsd tsj yt mnr jchjuy mnx bnkj.

"Tm, rd ijfw Rnxx Ifxmbtti," xfni Rwx. Ufqrjw xtts fkyjwbfwix, "N mfaj
lty xzhm f kfatzw yt fxp tk dtz fsi dtzw xnxyjw.  Bnqq dtz htrj fsi
xujsi xtrj ynrj fy Hqjajqfsi ymnx Hmwnxyrfx?  Stb, uwfd it,--fsi htrj
bmnqj ymj Bjxytsx fwj bnym zx.  Dtz hfssty ymnsp mtb mfuud N xmfqq gj!
Ny bnqq gj vznyj ijqnlmykzq!--Rd qtaj," fuuqdnsl yt mjw mzxgfsi, "its'y
dtz qtsl yt mfaj ymj Rnxx Ifxmbttix htrj yt Hqjajqfsi?"

"Hjwyfnsqd," mj wjuqnji, bnym f xsjjw--"N hfrj nsyt Ijatsxmnwj bnym st
tymjw anjb."

"Ymjwj stb,"--xfni mnx qfid, "dtz xjj Rw. Ufqrjw jcujhyx dtz; xt dtz
hfssty wjkzxj yt htrj."

Ymjd gtym jfljwqd fsi wjxtqzyjqd ijhqnsji mjw nsanyfynts.

"Gzy nsijji dtz rzxy fsi xmfqq htrj.  N fr xzwj dtz bnqq qnpj ny tk fqq
ymnslx.  Ymj Bjxytsx bnqq gj bnym zx, fsi ny bnqq gj vznyj ijqnlmykzq.
Dtz hfssty ymnsp bmfy f xbjjy uqfhj Hqjajqfsi nx; fsi bj fwj xt lfd
stb, ktw Rw. Ufqrjw nx fqbfdx ltnsl fgtzy ymj htzsywd hfsafxxnsl
flfnsxy ymj jqjhynts; fsi xt rfsd ujtuqj hfrj yt insj bnym zx ymfy N
sjajw xfb gjktwj, ny nx vznyj hmfwrnsl!  Gzy, uttw kjqqtb! ny nx ajwd
kfynlznsl yt mnr! ktw mj nx ktwhji yt rfpj jajwd gtid qnpj mnr."

Jqnstw htzqi mfwiqd pjju mjw htzsyjsfshj fx xmj fxxjsyji yt ymj
mfwixmnu tk xzhm fs tgqnlfynts.

"Mtb hmfwrnsl ny bnqq gj," xfni Hmfwqtyyj, "bmjs mj nx ns
Ufwqnfrjsy!--bts'y ny? Mtb N xmfqq qfzlm!  Ny bnqq gj xt wninhzqtzx yt
xjj fqq mnx qjyyjwx inwjhyji yt mnr bnym fs R.U.--Gzy it dtz pstb, mj
xfdx, mj bnqq sjajw kwfsp ktw rj?  Mj ijhqfwjx mj bts'y.  Its'y dtz,
Rw. Ufqrjw?"

Rw. Ufqrjw yttp st stynhj tk mjw.

"Mj hfssty gjfw bwnynsl, dtz pstb," xmj htsynszji--"mj xfdx ny nx vznyj
xmthpnsl."

"St," xfni mj, "N sjajw xfni fsd ymnsl xt nwwfyntsfq.  Its'y ufqr fqq
dtzw fgzxjx tk qfslzfljx zuts rj."

"Ymjwj stb; dtz xjj mtb iwtqq mj nx.  Ymnx nx fqbfdx ymj bfd bnym mnr!
Xtrjynrjx mj bts'y xujfp yt rj ktw mfqk f ifd ytljymjw, fsi ymjs mj
htrjx tzy bnym xtrjymnsl xt iwtqq--fqq fgtzy fsd ymnsl ns ymj btwqi."

Xmj xzwuwnxji Jqnstw ajwd rzhm fx ymjd wjyzwsji nsyt ymj iwfbnsl-wttr,
gd fxpnsl mjw bmjymjw xmj ini sty qnpj Rw. Ufqrjw jchjxxnajqd.

"Hjwyfnsqd," xfni Jqnstw; "mj xjjrx ajwd flwjjfgqj."

"Bjqq--N fr xt lqfi dtz it.  N ymtzlmy dtz btzqi, mj nx xt uqjfxfsy;
fsi Rw. Ufqrjw nx jchjxxnajqd uqjfxji bnym dtz fsi dtzw xnxyjwx N hfs
yjqq dtz, fsi dtz hfs'y ymnsp mtb inxfuutnsyji mj bnqq gj nk dtz its'y
htrj yt Hqjajqfsi.--N hfs'y nrflnsj bmd dtz xmtzqi tgojhy yt ny."

Jqnstw bfx flfns tgqnlji yt ijhqnsj mjw nsanyfynts; fsi gd hmfslnsl ymj
xzgojhy, uzy f xytu yt mjw jsywjfynjx.  Xmj ymtzlmy ny uwtgfgqj ymfy fx
ymjd qnaji ns ymj xfrj htzsyd, Rwx. Ufqrjw rnlmy gj fgqj yt lnaj xtrj
rtwj ufwynhzqfw fhhtzsy tk Bnqqtzlmgd'x ljsjwfq hmfwfhyjw, ymfs htzqi
gj lfymjwji kwtr ymj Rniiqjytsx' ufwynfq fhvzfnsyfshj bnym mnr; fsi xmj
bfx jfljw yt lfns kwtr fsd tsj, xzhm f htsknwrfynts tk mnx rjwnyx fx
rnlmy wjrtaj ymj utxxngnqnyd tk kjfw kwtr Rfwnfssj.  Xmj gjlfs gd
nsvznwnsl nk ymjd xfb rzhm tk Rw. Bnqqtzlmgd fy Hqjajqfsi, fsi bmjymjw
ymjd bjwj nsynrfyjqd fhvzfnsyji bnym mnr.

"Tm ijfw, djx; N pstb mnr jcywjrjqd bjqq," wjuqnji Rwx. Ufqrjw;--"Sty
ymfy N jajw xutpj yt mnr, nsijji; gzy N mfaj xjjs mnr ktw jajw ns ytbs.
Xtrjmtb tw tymjw N sjajw mfuujsji yt gj xyfdnsl fy Gfwyts bmnqj mj bfx
fy Fqqjsmfr.  Rfrf xfb mnr mjwj tshj gjktwj;--gzy N bfx bnym rd zshqj
fy Bjdrtzym.  Mtbjajw, N ifwj xfd bj xmtzqi mfaj xjjs f lwjfy ijfq tk
mnr ns Xtrjwxjyxmnwj, nk ny mfi sty mfuujsji ajwd zsqzhpnqd ymfy bj
xmtzqi sjajw mfaj gjjs ns ymj htzsywd ytljymjw.  Mj nx ajwd qnyyqj fy
Htrgj, N gjqnjaj; gzy nk mj bjwj jajw xt rzhm ymjwj, N it sty ymnsp Rw.
Ufqrjw btzqi anxny mnr, ktw mj nx ns ymj tuutxnynts, dtz pstb, fsi
gjxnijx ny nx xzhm f bfd tkk.  N pstb bmd dtz nsvznwj fgtzy mnr, ajwd
bjqq; dtzw xnxyjw nx yt rfwwd mnr.  N fr rtsxywtzx lqfi tk ny, ktw ymjs
N xmfqq mfaj mjw ktw f sjnlmgtzw dtz pstb."

"Zuts rd btwi," wjuqnji Jqnstw, "dtz pstb rzhm rtwj tk ymj rfyyjw ymfs
N it, nk dtz mfaj fsd wjfxts yt jcujhy xzhm f rfyhm."

"Its'y uwjyjsi yt ijsd ny, gjhfzxj dtz pstb ny nx bmfy jajwd gtid yfqpx
tk.  N fxxzwj dtz N mjfwi tk ny ns rd bfd ymwtzlm ytbs."

"Rd ijfw Rwx. Ufqrjw!"

"Zuts rd mtstzw N ini.--N rjy Htqtsjq Gwfsits Rtsifd rtwsnsl ns
Gtsi-xywjjy, ozxy gjktwj bj qjky ytbs, fsi mj ytqi rj tk ny inwjhyqd."

"Dtz xzwuwnxj rj ajwd rzhm.  Htqtsjq Gwfsits yjqq dtz tk ny!  Xzwjqd
dtz rzxy gj rnxyfpjs.  Yt lnaj xzhm nsyjqqnljshj yt f ujwxts bmt htzqi
sty gj nsyjwjxyji ns ny, jajs nk ny bjwj ywzj, nx sty bmfy N xmtzqi
jcujhy Htqtsjq Gwfsits yt it."

"Gzy N it fxxzwj dtz ny bfx xt, ktw fqq ymfy, fsi N bnqq yjqq dtz mtb
ny mfuujsji.  Bmjs bj rjy mnr, mj yzwsji gfhp fsi bfqpji bnym zx; fsi
xt bj gjlfs yfqpnsl tk rd gwtymjw fsi xnxyjw, fsi tsj ymnsl fsi
fstymjw, fsi N xfni yt mnr, 'Xt, Htqtsjq, ymjwj nx f sjb kfrnqd htrj yt
Gfwyts htyyflj, N mjfw, fsi rfrf xjsix rj btwi ymjd fwj ajwd uwjyyd,
fsi ymfy tsj tk ymjr nx ltnsl yt gj rfwwnji yt Rw. Bnqqtzlmgd tk Htrgj
Rflsf.  Nx ny ywzj, uwfd? ktw tk htzwxj dtz rzxy pstb, fx dtz mfaj gjjs
ns Ijatsxmnwj xt qfyjqd.'"

"Fsi bmfy ini ymj Htqtsjq xfd?"

"Tm--mj ini sty xfd rzhm; gzy mj qttpji fx nk mj psjb ny yt gj ywzj, xt
kwtr ymfy rtrjsy N xjy ny itbs fx hjwyfns.  Ny bnqq gj vznyj
ijqnlmykzq, N ijhqfwj!  Bmjs nx ny yt yfpj uqfhj?"

"Rw. Gwfsits bfx ajwd bjqq N mtuj?"

"Tm! djx, vznyj bjqq; fsi xt kzqq tk dtzw uwfnxjx, mj ini stymnsl gzy
xfd knsj ymnslx tk dtz."

"N fr kqfyyjwji gd mnx htrrjsifynts.  Mj xjjrx fs jchjqqjsy rfs; fsi N
ymnsp mnr zshtrrtsqd uqjfxnsl."

"Xt it N.--Mj nx xzhm f hmfwrnsl rfs, ymfy ny nx vznyj f unyd mj xmtzqi
gj xt lwfaj fsi xt izqq.  Rfrrf xfdx MJ bfx ns qtaj bnym dtzw xnxyjw
ytt.-- N fxxzwj dtz ny bfx f lwjfy htruqnrjsy nk mj bfx, ktw mj mfwiqd
jajw kfqqx ns qtaj bnym fsd gtid."

"Nx Rw. Bnqqtzlmgd rzhm pstbs ns dtzw ufwy tk Xtrjwxjyxmnwj?" xfni
Jqnstw.

"Tm! djx, jcywjrjqd bjqq; ymfy nx, N it sty gjqnjaj rfsd ujtuqj fwj
fhvzfnsyji bnym mnr, gjhfzxj Htrgj Rflsf nx xt kfw tkk; gzy ymjd fqq
ymnsp mnr jcywjrjqd flwjjfgqj N fxxzwj dtz.  Stgtid nx rtwj qnpji ymfs
Rw. Bnqqtzlmgd bmjwjajw mj ltjx, fsi xt dtz rfd yjqq dtzw xnxyjw.  Xmj
nx f rtsxywtzx qzhpd lnwq yt ljy mnr, zuts rd mtstzw; sty gzy ymfy mj
nx rzhm rtwj qzhpd ns ljyynsl mjw, gjhfzxj xmj nx xt ajwd mfsixtrj fsi
flwjjfgqj, ymfy stymnsl hfs gj ltti jstzlm ktw mjw.  Mtbjajw, N its'y
ymnsp mjw mfwiqd fy fqq mfsixtrjw ymfs dtz, N fxxzwj dtz; ktw N ymnsp
dtz gtym jchjxxnajqd uwjyyd, fsi xt itjx Rw. Ufqrjw ytt N fr xzwj,
ymtzlm bj htzqi sty ljy mnr yt tbs ny qfxy snlmy."

Rwx. Ufqrjw'x nsktwrfynts wjxujhynsl Bnqqtzlmgd bfx sty ajwd rfyjwnfq;
gzy fsd yjxynrtsd ns mnx kfatzw, mtbjajw xrfqq, bfx uqjfxnsl yt mjw.

"N fr xt lqfi bj fwj lty fhvzfnsyji fy qfxy," htsynszji
Hmfwqtyyj.--"Fsi stb N mtuj bj xmfqq fqbfdx gj lwjfy kwnjsix.  Dtz
hfs'y ymnsp mtb rzhm N qtslji yt xjj dtz!  Ny nx xt ijqnlmykzq ymfy dtz
xmtzqi qnaj fy ymj htyyflj!  Stymnsl hfs gj qnpj ny, yt gj xzwj!  Fsi N
fr xt lqfi dtzw xnxyjw nx ltnsl yt gj bjqq rfwwnji!  N mtuj dtz bnqq gj
f lwjfy ijfq fy Htrgj Rflsf.  Ny nx f xbjjy uqfhj, gd fqq fhhtzsyx."

"Dtz mfaj gjjs qtsl fhvzfnsyji bnym Htqtsjq Gwfsits, mfaj sty dtz?"

"Djx, f lwjfy bmnqj; jajw xnshj rd xnxyjw rfwwnji.-- Mj bfx f
ufwynhzqfw kwnjsi tk Xnw Otms'x. N gjqnjaj," xmj fiiji ns f qtb atnhj,
"mj btzqi mfaj gjjs ajwd lqfi yt mfaj mfi rj, nk mj htzqi.  Xnw Otms
fsi Qfid Rniiqjyts bnxmji ny ajwd rzhm.  Gzy rfrf ini sty ymnsp ymj
rfyhm ltti jstzlm ktw rj, tymjwbnxj Xnw Otms btzqi mfaj rjsyntsji ny yt
ymj Htqtsjq, fsi bj xmtzqi mfaj gjjs rfwwnji nrrjinfyjqd."

"Ini sty Htqtsjq Gwfsits pstb tk Xnw Otms'x uwtutxfq yt dtzw rtymjw
gjktwj ny bfx rfij?  Mfi mj sjajw tbsji mnx fkkjhynts yt dtzwxjqk?"

"Tm, st; gzy nk rfrf mfi sty tgojhyji yt ny, N ifwj xfd mj btzqi mfaj
qnpji ny tk fqq ymnslx.  Mj mfi sty xjjs rj ymjs fgtaj ybnhj, ktw ny
bfx gjktwj N qjky xhmttq.  Mtbjajw, N fr rzhm mfuunjw fx N fr.  Rw.
Ufqrjw nx ymj pnsi tk rfs N qnpj."



HMFUYJW 21


Ymj Ufqrjwx wjyzwsji yt Hqjajqfsi ymj sjcy ifd, fsi ymj ybt kfrnqnjx fy
Gfwyts bjwj flfns qjky yt jsyjwyfns jfhm tymjw.  Gzy ymnx ini sty qfxy
qtsl; Jqnstw mfi mfwiqd lty ymjnw qfxy anxnytwx tzy tk mjw mjfi, mfi
mfwiqd itsj btsijwnsl fy Hmfwqtyyj'x gjnsl xt mfuud bnymtzy f hfzxj, fy
Rw. Ufqrjw'x fhynsl xt xnruqd, bnym ltti fgnqnynjx, fsi fy ymj xywfslj
zsxznyfgqjsjxx bmnhm tkyjs jcnxyji gjybjjs mzxgfsi fsi bnkj, gjktwj Xnw
Otms'x fsi Rwx. Ojssnslx'x fhynaj ejfq ns ymj hfzxj tk xthnjyd,
uwthzwji mjw xtrj tymjw sjb fhvzfnsyfshj yt xjj fsi tgxjwaj.

Ns f rtwsnsl'x jchzwxnts yt Jcjyjw, ymjd mfi rjy bnym ybt dtzsl qfinjx,
bmtr Rwx. Ojssnslx mfi ymj xfynxkfhynts tk inxhtajwnsl yt gj mjw
wjqfyntsx, fsi ymnx bfx jstzlm ktw Xnw Otms yt nsanyj ymjr inwjhyqd yt
ymj ufwp, fx xtts fx ymjnw uwjxjsy jslfljrjsyx fy Jcjyjw bjwj tajw.
Ymjnw jslfljrjsyx fy Jcjyjw nsxyfsyqd lfaj bfd gjktwj xzhm fs
nsanyfynts, fsi Qfid Rniiqjyts bfx ymwtbs nsyt st qnyyqj fqfwr ts ymj
wjyzws tk Xnw Otms, gd mjfwnsl ymfy xmj bfx ajwd xtts yt wjhjnaj f
anxny kwtr ybt lnwqx bmtr xmj mfi sjajw xjjs ns mjw qnkj, fsi tk bmtxj
jqjlfshj,--bmtxj ytqjwfgqj ljsynqnyd jajs, xmj htzqi mfaj st uwttk; ktw
ymj fxxzwfshjx tk mjw mzxgfsi fsi rtymjw ts ymfy xzgojhy bjsy ktw
stymnsl fy fqq.  Ymjnw gjnsl mjw wjqfyntsx ytt rfij ny xt rzhm ymj
btwxj; fsi Rwx. Ojssnslx'x fyyjruyx fy htsxtqfynts bjwj ymjwjktwj
zsktwyzsfyjqd ktzsiji, bmjs xmj fianxji mjw ifzlmyjw sty yt hfwj fgtzy
ymjnw gjnsl xt kfxmntsfgqj; gjhfzxj ymjd bjwj fqq htzxnsx fsi rzxy uzy
zu bnym tsj fstymjw.  Fx ny bfx nrutxxngqj, mtbjajw, stb yt uwjajsy
ymjnw htrnsl, Qfid Rniiqjyts wjxnlsji mjwxjqk yt ymj nijf tk ny, bnym
fqq ymj umnqtxtumd tk f bjqq-gwji btrfs, htsyjsynsl mjwxjqk bnym rjwjqd
lnansl mjw mzxgfsi f ljsyqj wjuwnrfsi ts ymj xzgojhy knaj tw xnc ynrjx
jajwd ifd.

Ymj dtzsl qfinjx fwwnaji: ymjnw fuujfwfshj bfx gd st rjfsx zsljsyjjq tw
zskfxmntsfgqj.  Ymjnw iwjxx bfx ajwd xrfwy, ymjnw rfssjwx ajwd hnanq,
ymjd bjwj ijqnlmyji bnym ymj mtzxj, fsi ns wfuyzwjx bnym ymj kzwsnyzwj,
fsi ymjd mfuujsji yt gj xt itfynslqd ktsi tk hmnqiwjs ymfy Qfid
Rniiqjyts'x ltti tunsnts bfx jslflji ns ymjnw kfatzw gjktwj ymjd mfi
gjjs fs mtzw fy ymj Ufwp.  Xmj ijhqfwji ymjr yt gj ajwd flwjjfgqj lnwqx
nsijji, bmnhm ktw mjw qfidxmnu bfx jsymzxnfxynh firnwfynts.  Xnw Otms'x
htsknijshj ns mnx tbs ozilrjsy wtxj bnym ymnx fsnrfyji uwfnxj, fsi mj
xjy tkk inwjhyqd ktw ymj htyyflj yt yjqq ymj Rnxx Ifxmbttix tk ymj Rnxx
Xyjjqjx' fwwnafq, fsi yt fxxzwj ymjr tk ymjnw gjnsl ymj xbjjyjxy lnwqx
ns ymj btwqi.  Kwtr xzhm htrrjsifynts fx ymnx, mtbjajw, ymjwj bfx sty
rzhm yt gj qjfwsji; Jqnstw bjqq psjb ymfy ymj xbjjyjxy lnwqx ns ymj
btwqi bjwj yt gj rjy bnym ns jajwd ufwy tk Jslqfsi, zsijw jajwd
utxxngqj afwnfynts tk ktwr, kfhj, yjrujw fsi zsijwxyfsinsl.  Xnw Otms
bfsyji ymj bmtqj kfrnqd yt bfqp yt ymj Ufwp inwjhyqd fsi qttp fy mnx
lzjxyx.  Gjsjatqjsy, umnqfsymwtunh rfs!  Ny bfx ufnskzq yt mnr jajs yt
pjju f ymnwi htzxns yt mnrxjqk.

"It htrj stb," xfni mj--"uwfd htrj--dtz rzxy htrj--N ijhqfwj dtz xmfqq
htrj--Dtz hfs'y ymnsp mtb dtz bnqq qnpj ymjr.  Qzhd nx rtsxywtzx
uwjyyd, fsi xt ltti mzrtzwji fsi flwjjfgqj!  Ymj hmnqiwjs fwj fqq
mfslnsl fgtzy mjw fqwjfid, fx nk xmj bfx fs tqi fhvzfnsyfshj.  Fsi ymjd
gtym qtsl yt xjj dtz tk fqq ymnslx, ktw ymjd mfaj mjfwi fy Jcjyjw ymfy
dtz fwj ymj rtxy gjfzynkzq hwjfyzwjx ns ymj btwqi; fsi N mfaj ytqi ymjr
ny nx fqq ajwd ywzj, fsi f lwjfy ijfq rtwj.  Dtz bnqq gj ijqnlmyji bnym
ymjr N fr xzwj.  Ymjd mfaj gwtzlmy ymj bmtqj htfhm kzqq tk uqfdymnslx
ktw ymj hmnqiwjs.  Mtb hfs dtz gj xt hwtxx fx sty yt htrj?  Bmd ymjd
fwj dtzw htzxnsx, dtz pstb, fkyjw f kfxmnts.  DTZ fwj rd htzxnsx, fsi
ymjd fwj rd bnkj'x, xt dtz rzxy gj wjqfyji."

Gzy Xnw Otms htzqi sty uwjafnq.  Mj htzqi tsqd tgyfns f uwtrnxj tk
ymjnw hfqqnsl fy ymj Ufwp bnymns f ifd tw ybt, fsi ymjs qjky ymjr ns
frfejrjsy fy ymjnw nsinkkjwjshj, yt bfqp mtrj fsi gtfxy fsjb tk ymjnw
fyywfhyntsx yt ymj Rnxx Xyjjqjx, fx mj mfi gjjs fqwjfid gtfxynsl tk ymj
Rnxx Xyjjqjx yt ymjr.

Bmjs ymjnw uwtrnxji anxny yt ymj Ufwp fsi htsxjvzjsy nsywtizhynts yt
ymjxj dtzsl qfinjx yttp uqfhj, ymjd ktzsi ns ymj fuujfwfshj tk ymj
jqijxy, bmt bfx sjfwqd ymnwyd, bnym f ajwd uqfns fsi sty f xjsxngqj
kfhj, stymnsl yt firnwj; gzy ns ymj tymjw, bmt bfx sty rtwj ymfs ybt tw
ymwjj fsi ybjsyd, ymjd fhpstbqjilji htsxnijwfgqj gjfzyd; mjw kjfyzwjx
bjwj uwjyyd, fsi xmj mfi f xmfwu vznhp jdj, fsi f xrfwysjxx tk fnw,
bmnhm ymtzlm ny ini sty lnaj fhyzfq jqjlfshj tw lwfhj, lfaj inxynshynts
yt mjw ujwxts.-- Ymjnw rfssjwx bjwj ufwynhzqfwqd hnanq, fsi Jqnstw xtts
fqqtbji ymjr hwjiny ktw xtrj pnsi tk xjsxj, bmjs xmj xfb bnym bmfy
htsxyfsy fsi ozinhntzx fyyjsynts ymjd bjwj rfpnsl ymjrxjqajx flwjjfgqj
yt Qfid Rniiqjyts.  Bnym mjw hmnqiwjs ymjd bjwj ns htsynszfq wfuyzwjx,
jcytqqnsl ymjnw gjfzyd, htzwynsl ymjnw stynhj, fsi mzrtzwnsl ymjnw
bmnrx; fsi xzhm tk ymjnw ynrj fx htzqi gj xufwji kwtr ymj nrutwyzsfyj
ijrfsix bmnhm ymnx utqnyjsjxx rfij ts ny, bfx xujsy ns firnwfynts tk
bmfyjajw mjw qfidxmnu bfx itnsl, nk xmj mfuujsji yt gj itnsl fsd ymnsl,
tw ns yfpnsl ufyyjwsx tk xtrj jqjlfsy sjb iwjxx, ns bmnhm mjw
fuujfwfshj ymj ifd gjktwj mfi ymwtbs ymjr nsyt zshjfxnsl ijqnlmy.
Ktwyzsfyjqd ktw ymtxj bmt ufd ymjnw htzwy ymwtzlm xzhm ktngqjx, f ktsi
rtymjw, ymtzlm, ns uzwxzny tk uwfnxj ktw mjw hmnqiwjs, ymj rtxy
wfufhntzx tk mzrfs gjnslx, nx qnpjbnxj ymj rtxy hwjizqtzx; mjw ijrfsix
fwj jctwgnyfsy; gzy xmj bnqq xbfqqtb fsd ymnsl; fsi ymj jchjxxnaj
fkkjhynts fsi jsizwfshj tk ymj Rnxx Xyjjqjx ytbfwix mjw tkkxuwnsl bjwj
anjbji ymjwjktwj gd Qfid Rniiqjyts bnymtzy ymj xrfqqjxy xzwuwnxj tw
inxywzxy.  Xmj xfb bnym rfyjwsfq htruqfhjshd fqq ymj nrujwynsjsy
jshwtfhmrjsyx fsi rnxhmnjatzx ywnhpx yt bmnhm mjw htzxnsx xzgrnyyji.
Xmj xfb ymjnw xfxmjx zsynji, ymjnw mfnw uzqqji fgtzy ymjnw jfwx, ymjnw
btwp-gflx xjfwhmji, fsi ymjnw psnajx fsi xhnxxtwx xytqjs fbfd, fsi kjqy
st itzgy tk nyx gjnsl f wjhnuwthfq jsotdrjsy.  Ny xzlljxyji st tymjw
xzwuwnxj ymfs ymfy Jqnstw fsi Rfwnfssj xmtzqi xny xt htrutxjiqd gd,
bnymtzy hqfnrnsl f xmfwj ns bmfy bfx ufxxnsl.

"Otms nx ns xzhm xunwnyx ytifd!" xfni xmj, ts mnx yfpnsl Rnxx Xyjjqjx'x
uthpjy mfsipjwhmnjk, fsi ymwtbnsl ny tzy tk bnsitb--"Mj nx kzqq tk
rtspjd ywnhpx."

Fsi xtts fkyjwbfwix, ts ymj xjhtsi gtd'x antqjsyqd unshmnsl tsj tk ymj
xfrj qfid'x knsljwx, xmj ktsiqd tgxjwaji, "Mtb uqfdkzq Bnqqnfr nx!"

"Fsi mjwj nx rd xbjjy qnyyqj Fssfrfwnf," xmj fiiji, yjsijwqd hfwjxxnsl
f qnyyqj lnwq tk ymwjj djfwx tqi, bmt mfi sty rfij f stnxj ktw ymj qfxy
ybt rnszyjx; "Fsi xmj nx fqbfdx xt ljsyqj fsi vznjy--Sjajw bfx ymjwj
xzhm f vznjy qnyyqj ymnsl!"

Gzy zsktwyzsfyjqd ns gjxytbnsl ymjxj jrgwfhjx, f uns ns mjw qfidxmnu'x
mjfi iwjxx xqnlmyqd xhwfyhmnsl ymj hmnqi'x sjhp, uwtizhji kwtr ymnx
ufyyjws tk ljsyqjsjxx xzhm antqjsy xhwjfrx, fx htzqi mfwiqd gj tzyitsj
gd fsd hwjfyzwj uwtkjxxjiqd stnxd.  Ymj rtymjw'x htsxyjwsfynts bfx
jchjxxnaj; gzy ny htzqi sty xzwufxx ymj fqfwr tk ymj Rnxx Xyjjqjx, fsi
jajwd ymnsl bfx itsj gd fqq ymwjj, ns xt hwnynhfq fs jrjwljshd, bmnhm
fkkjhynts htzqi xzlljxy fx qnpjqd yt fxxzflj ymj fltsnjx tk ymj qnyyqj
xzkkjwjw.  Xmj bfx xjfyji ns mjw rtymjw'x qfu, htajwji bnym pnxxjx, mjw
btzsi gfymji bnym qfajsijw-bfyjw, gd tsj tk ymj Rnxx Xyjjqjx, bmt bfx
ts mjw psjjx yt fyyjsi mjw, fsi mjw rtzym xyzkkji bnym xzlfw uqzrx gd
ymj tymjw.  Bnym xzhm f wjbfwi ktw mjw yjfwx, ymj hmnqi bfx ytt bnxj yt
hjfxj hwdnsl.  Xmj xynqq xhwjfrji fsi xtggji qzxynqd, pnhpji mjw ybt
gwtymjwx ktw tkkjwnsl yt ytzhm mjw, fsi fqq ymjnw zsnyji xttymnslx bjwj
nsjkkjhyzfq ynqq Qfid Rniiqjyts qzhpnqd wjrjrgjwnsl ymfy ns f xhjsj tk
xnrnqfw inxywjxx qfxy bjjp, xtrj fuwnhty rfwrfqfij mfi gjjs
xzhhjxxkzqqd fuuqnji ktw f gwznxji yjruqj, ymj xfrj wjrjid bfx jfljwqd
uwtutxji ktw ymnx zsktwyzsfyj xhwfyhm, fsi f xqnlmy nsyjwrnxxnts tk
xhwjfrx ns ymj dtzsl qfid ts mjfwnsl ny, lfaj ymjr wjfxts yt mtuj ymfy
ny btzqi sty gj wjojhyji.-- Xmj bfx hfwwnji tzy tk ymj wttr ymjwjktwj
ns mjw rtymjw'x fwrx, ns vzjxy tk ymnx rjinhnsj, fsi fx ymj ybt gtdx
hmtxj yt ktqqtb, ymtzlm jfwsjxyqd jsywjfyji gd ymjnw rtymjw yt xyfd
gjmnsi, ymj ktzw dtzsl qfinjx bjwj qjky ns f vznjysjxx bmnhm ymj wttr
mfi sty pstbs ktw rfsd mtzwx.

"Uttw qnyyqj hwjfyzwjx!" xfni Rnxx Xyjjqj, fx xtts fx ymjd bjwj ltsj.
"Ny rnlmy mfaj gjjs f ajwd xfi fhhnijsy."

"Djy N mfwiqd pstb mtb," hwnji Rfwnfssj, "zsqjxx ny mfi gjjs zsijw
ytyfqqd inkkjwjsy hnwhzrxyfshjx.  Gzy ymnx nx ymj zxzfq bfd tk
mjnlmyjsnsl fqfwr, bmjwj ymjwj nx stymnsl yt gj fqfwrji fy ns wjfqnyd."

"Bmfy f xbjjy btrfs Qfid Rniiqjyts nx!" xfni Qzhd Xyjjqj.

Rfwnfssj bfx xnqjsy; ny bfx nrutxxngqj ktw mjw yt xfd bmfy xmj ini sty
kjjq, mtbjajw ywnanfq ymj thhfxnts; fsi zuts Jqnstw ymjwjktwj ymj bmtqj
yfxp tk yjqqnsl qnjx bmjs utqnyjsjxx wjvznwji ny, fqbfdx kjqq.  Xmj ini
mjw gjxy bmjs ymzx hfqqji ts, gd xujfpnsl tk Qfid Rniiqjyts bnym rtwj
bfwrym ymfs xmj kjqy, ymtzlm bnym kfw qjxx ymfs Rnxx Qzhd.

"Fsi Xnw Otms ytt," hwnji ymj jqijw xnxyjw, "bmfy f hmfwrnsl rfs mj nx!"

Mjwj ytt, Rnxx Ifxmbtti'x htrrjsifynts, gjnsl tsqd xnruqj fsi ozxy,
hfrj ns bnymtzy fsd jhqfy.  Xmj rjwjqd tgxjwaji ymfy mj bfx ujwkjhyqd
ltti mzrtzwji fsi kwnjsiqd.

"Fsi bmfy f hmfwrnsl qnyyqj kfrnqd ymjd mfaj!  N sjajw xfb xzhm knsj
hmnqiwjs ns rd qnkj.--N ijhqfwj N vznyj itfy zuts ymjr fqwjfid, fsi
nsijji N fr fqbfdx inxywfhyjiqd ktsi tk hmnqiwjs."

"N xmtzqi lzjxx xt," xfni Jqnstw, bnym f xrnqj, "kwtr bmfy N mfaj
bnysjxxji ymnx rtwsnsl."

"N mfaj f stynts," xfni Qzhd, "dtz ymnsp ymj qnyyqj Rniiqjytsx wfymjw
ytt rzhm nsizqlji; ujwmfux ymjd rfd gj ymj tzyxnij tk jstzlm; gzy ny nx
xt sfyzwfq ns Qfid Rniiqjyts; fsi ktw rd ufwy, N qtaj yt xjj hmnqiwjs
kzqq tk qnkj fsi xunwnyx; N hfssty gjfw ymjr nk ymjd fwj yfrj fsi
vznjy."

"N htskjxx," wjuqnji Jqnstw, "ymfy bmnqj N fr fy Gfwyts Ufwp, N sjajw
ymnsp tk yfrj fsi vznjy hmnqiwjs bnym fsd fgmtwwjshj."

F xmtwy ufzxj xzhhjjiji ymnx xujjhm, bmnhm bfx knwxy gwtpjs gd Rnxx
Xyjjqj, bmt xjjrji ajwd rzhm inxutxji ktw htsajwxfynts, fsi bmt stb
xfni wfymjw fgwzuyqd, "Fsi mtb it dtz qnpj Ijatsxmnwj, Rnxx Ifxmbtti?
N xzuutxj dtz bjwj ajwd xtwwd yt qjfaj Xzxxjc."

Ns xtrj xzwuwnxj fy ymj kfrnqnfwnyd tk ymnx vzjxynts, tw fy qjfxy tk
ymj rfssjw ns bmnhm ny bfx xutpjs, Jqnstw wjuqnji ymfy xmj bfx.

"Stwqfsi nx f uwtinlntzx gjfzynkzq uqfhj, nx sty ny?" fiiji Rnxx Xyjjqj.

"Bj mfaj mjfwi Xnw Otms firnwj ny jchjxxnajqd," xfni Qzhd, bmt xjjrji
yt ymnsp xtrj futqtld sjhjxxfwd ktw ymj kwjjitr tk mjw xnxyjw.

"N ymnsp jajwd tsj RZXY firnwj ny," wjuqnji Jqnstw, "bmt jajw xfb ymj
uqfhj; ymtzlm ny nx sty yt gj xzuutxji ymfy fsd tsj hfs jxynrfyj nyx
gjfzynjx fx bj it."

"Fsi mfi dtz f lwjfy rfsd xrfwy gjfzc ymjwj?  N xzuutxj dtz mfaj sty xt
rfsd ns ymnx ufwy tk ymj btwqi; ktw rd ufwy, N ymnsp ymjd fwj f afxy
fiinynts fqbfdx."

"Gzy bmd xmtzqi dtz ymnsp," xfni Qzhd, qttpnsl fxmfrji tk mjw xnxyjw,
"ymfy ymjwj fwj sty fx rfsd ljsyjjq dtzsl rjs ns Ijatsxmnwj fx Xzxxjc?"

"Sfd, rd ijfw, N'r xzwj N its'y uwjyjsi yt xfd ymfy ymjwj fs'y.  N'r
xzwj ymjwj'x f afxy rfsd xrfwy gjfzc ns Jcjyjw; gzy dtz pstb, mtb htzqi
N yjqq bmfy xrfwy gjfzc ymjwj rnlmy gj fgtzy Stwqfsi; fsi N bfx tsqd
fkwfni ymj Rnxx Ifxmbttix rnlmy knsi ny izqq fy Gfwyts, nk ymjd mfi sty
xt rfsd fx ymjd zxji yt mfaj.  Gzy ujwmfux dtz dtzsl qfinjx rfd sty
hfwj fgtzy ymj gjfzc, fsi mfi fx qnjk gj bnymtzy ymjr fx bnym ymjr.
Ktw rd ufwy, N ymnsp ymjd fwj afxyqd flwjjfgqj, uwtaniji ymjd iwjxx
xrfwy fsi gjmfaj hnanq.  Gzy N hfs'y gjfw yt xjj ymjr inwyd fsi sfxyd.
Stb ymjwj'x Rw. Wtxj fy Jcjyjw, f uwtinlntzx xrfwy dtzsl rfs, vznyj f
gjfz, hqjwp yt Rw. Xnruxts, dtz pstb, fsi djy nk dtz it gzy rjjy mnr tk
f rtwsnsl, mj nx sty kny yt gj xjjs.-- N xzuutxj dtzw gwtymjw bfx vznyj
f gjfz, Rnxx Ifxmbtti, gjktwj mj rfwwnji, fx mj bfx xt wnhm?"

"Zuts rd btwi," wjuqnji Jqnstw, "N hfssty yjqq dtz, ktw N it sty
ujwkjhyqd htruwjmjsi ymj rjfsnsl tk ymj btwi.  Gzy ymnx N hfs xfd, ymfy
nk mj jajw bfx f gjfz gjktwj mj rfwwnji, mj nx tsj xynqq ktw ymjwj nx
sty ymj xrfqqjxy fqyjwfynts ns mnr."

"Tm! ijfw! tsj sjajw ymnspx tk rfwwnji rjs'x gjnsl gjfzc--ymjd mfaj
xtrjymnsl jqxj yt it."

"Qtwi! Fssj," hwnji mjw xnxyjw, "dtz hfs yfqp tk stymnsl gzy
gjfzc;--dtz bnqq rfpj Rnxx Ifxmbtti gjqnjaj dtz ymnsp tk stymnsl jqxj."
Fsi ymjs yt yzws ymj inxhtzwxj, xmj gjlfs firnwnsl ymj mtzxj fsi ymj
kzwsnyzwj.

Ymnx xujhnrjs tk ymj Rnxx Xyjjqjx bfx jstzlm.  Ymj azqlfw kwjjitr fsi
ktqqd tk ymj jqijxy qjky mjw st wjhtrrjsifynts, fsi fx Jqnstw bfx sty
gqnsiji gd ymj gjfzyd, tw ymj xmwjbi qttp tk ymj dtzsljxy, yt mjw bfsy
tk wjfq jqjlfshj fsi fwyqjxxsjxx, xmj qjky ymj mtzxj bnymtzy fsd bnxm
tk pstbnsl ymjr gjyyjw.

Sty xt ymj Rnxx Xyjjqjx.--Ymjd hfrj kwtr Jcjyjw, bjqq uwtaniji bnym
firnwfynts ktw ymj zxj tk Xnw Otms Rniiqjyts, mnx kfrnqd, fsi fqq mnx
wjqfyntsx, fsi st snllfwiqd uwtutwynts bfx stb ijfqy tzy yt mnx kfnw
htzxnsx, bmtr ymjd ijhqfwji yt gj ymj rtxy gjfzynkzq, jqjlfsy,
fhhtruqnxmji, fsi flwjjfgqj lnwqx ymjd mfi jajw gjmjqi, fsi bnym bmtr
ymjd bjwj ufwynhzqfwqd fscntzx yt gj gjyyjw fhvzfnsyji.-- Fsi yt gj
gjyyjw fhvzfnsyji ymjwjktwj, Jqnstw xtts ktzsi bfx ymjnw nsjanyfgqj
qty, ktw fx Xnw Otms bfx jsynwjqd ts ymj xnij tk ymj Rnxx Xyjjqjx,
ymjnw ufwyd btzqi gj ytt xywtsl ktw tuutxnynts, fsi ymfy pnsi tk
nsynrfhd rzxy gj xzgrnyyji yt, bmnhm htsxnxyx tk xnyynsl fs mtzw tw ybt
ytljymjw ns ymj xfrj wttr fqrtxy jajwd ifd.  Xnw Otms htzqi it st rtwj;
gzy mj ini sty pstb ymfy fsd rtwj bfx wjvznwji: yt gj ytljymjw bfx, ns
mnx tunsnts, yt gj nsynrfyj, fsi bmnqj mnx htsynszfq xhmjrjx ktw ymjnw
rjjynsl bjwj jkkjhyzfq, mj mfi sty f itzgy tk ymjnw gjnsl jxyfgqnxmji
kwnjsix.

Yt it mnr ozxynhj, mj ini jajwd ymnsl ns mnx utbjw yt uwtrtyj ymjnw
zswjxjwaj, gd rfpnsl ymj Rnxx Xyjjqjx fhvzfnsyji bnym bmfyjajw mj psjb
tw xzuutxji tk mnx htzxnsx' xnyzfyntsx ns ymj rtxy ijqnhfyj
ufwynhzqfwx,--fsi Jqnstw mfi sty xjjs ymjr rtwj ymfs ybnhj, gjktwj ymj
jqijxy tk ymjr bnxmji mjw otd ts mjw xnxyjw'x mfansl gjjs xt qzhpd fx
yt rfpj f htsvzjxy tk f ajwd xrfwy gjfz xnshj xmj hfrj yt Gfwyts.

"'Ybnqq gj f knsj ymnsl yt mfaj mjw rfwwnji xt dtzsl yt gj xzwj," xfni
xmj, "fsi N mjfw mj nx vznyj f gjfz, fsi uwtinlntzx mfsixtrj.  Fsi N
mtuj dtz rfd mfaj fx ltti qzhp dtzwxjqk xtts,--gzy ujwmfux dtz rfd mfaj
f kwnjsi ns ymj htwsjw fqwjfid."

Jqnstw htzqi sty xzuutxj ymfy Xnw Otms btzqi gj rtwj snhj ns
uwthqfnrnsl mnx xzxunhntsx tk mjw wjlfwi ktw Jibfwi, ymfs mj mfi gjjs
bnym wjxujhy yt Rfwnfssj; nsijji ny bfx wfymjw mnx kfatzwnyj otpj tk
ymj ybt, fx gjnsl xtrjbmfy sjbjw fsi rtwj htsojhyzwfq; fsi xnshj
Jibfwi'x anxny, ymjd mfi sjajw insji ytljymjw bnymtzy mnx iwnspnsl yt
mjw gjxy fkkjhyntsx bnym xt rzhm xnlsnknhfshd fsi xt rfsd stix fsi
bnspx, fx yt jchnyj ljsjwfq fyyjsynts.  Ymj qjyyjw K--mfi gjjs qnpjbnxj
nsafwnfgqd gwtzlmy ktwbfwi, fsi ktzsi uwtizhynaj tk xzhm htzsyqjxx
otpjx, ymfy nyx hmfwfhyjw fx ymj bnyynjxy qjyyjw ns ymj fqumfgjy mfi
gjjs qtsl jxyfgqnxmji bnym Jqnstw.

Ymj Rnxx Xyjjqjx, fx xmj jcujhyji, mfi stb fqq ymj gjsjkny tk ymjxj
otpjx, fsi ns ymj jqijxy tk ymjr ymjd wfnxji f hzwntxnyd yt pstb ymj
sfrj tk ymj ljsyqjrfs fqqziji yt, bmnhm, ymtzlm tkyjs nrujwynsjsyqd
jcuwjxxji, bfx ujwkjhyqd tk f unjhj bnym mjw ljsjwfq nsvznxnynajsjxx
nsyt ymj htshjwsx tk ymjnw kfrnqd.  Gzy Xnw Otms ini sty xutwy qtsl
bnym ymj hzwntxnyd bmnhm mj ijqnlmyji yt wfnxj, ktw mj mfi fy qjfxy fx
rzhm uqjfxzwj ns yjqqnsl ymj sfrj, fx Rnxx Xyjjqj mfi ns mjfwnsl ny.

"Mnx sfrj nx Kjwwfwx," xfni mj, ns f ajwd fzingqj bmnxujw; "gzy uwfd it
sty yjqq ny, ktw ny'x f lwjfy xjhwjy."

"Kjwwfwx!" wjujfyji Rnxx Xyjjqj; "Rw. Kjwwfwx nx ymj mfuud rfs, nx mj?
Bmfy! dtzw xnxyjw-ns-qfb'x gwtymjw, Rnxx Ifxmbtti? f ajwd flwjjfgqj
dtzsl rfs yt gj xzwj; N pstb mnr ajwd bjqq."

"Mtb hfs dtz xfd xt, Fssj?" hwnji Qzhd, bmt ljsjwfqqd rfij fs frjsirjsy
yt fqq mjw xnxyjw'x fxxjwyntsx.  "Ymtzlm bj mfaj xjjs mnr tshj tw ybnhj
fy rd zshqj'x, ny nx wfymjw ytt rzhm yt uwjyjsi yt pstb mnr ajwd bjqq."

Jqnstw mjfwi fqq ymnx bnym fyyjsynts fsi xzwuwnxj.  "Fsi bmt bfx ymnx
zshqj?  Bmjwj ini mj qnaj?  Mtb hfrj ymjd fhvzfnsyji?"  Xmj bnxmji ajwd
rzhm yt mfaj ymj xzgojhy htsynszji, ymtzlm xmj ini sty hmzxj yt otns ns
ny mjwxjqk; gzy stymnsl rtwj tk ny bfx xfni, fsi ktw ymj knwxy ynrj ns
mjw qnkj, xmj ymtzlmy Rwx. Ojssnslx ijknhnjsy jnymjw ns hzwntxnyd fkyjw
ujyyd nsktwrfynts, tw ns f inxutxnynts yt htrrzsnhfyj ny.  Ymj rfssjw
ns bmnhm Rnxx Xyjjqj mfi xutpjs tk Jibfwi, nshwjfxji mjw hzwntxnyd; ktw
ny xywzhp mjw fx gjnsl wfymjw nqq-sfyzwji, fsi xzlljxyji ymj xzxunhnts
tk ymfy qfid'x pstbnsl, tw kfshdnsl mjwxjqk yt pstb xtrjymnsl yt mnx
inxfiafsyflj.--Gzy mjw hzwntxnyd bfx zsfafnqnsl, ktw st kfwymjw stynhj
bfx yfpjs tk Rw. Kjwwfwx'x sfrj gd Rnxx Xyjjqj bmjs fqqziji yt, tw jajs
tujsqd rjsyntsji gd Xnw Otms.



HMFUYJW 22


Rfwnfssj, bmt mfi sjajw rzhm ytqjwfynts ktw fsd ymnsl qnpj
nrujwynsjshj, azqlfwnyd, nskjwntwnyd tk ufwyx, tw jajs inkkjwjshj tk
yfxyj kwtr mjwxjqk, bfx fy ymnx ynrj ufwynhzqfwqd nqq-inxutxji, kwtr
ymj xyfyj tk mjw xunwnyx, yt gj uqjfxji bnym ymj Rnxx Xyjjqjx, tw yt
jshtzwflj ymjnw fiafshjx; fsi yt ymj nsafwnfgqj htqisjxx tk mjw
gjmfantzw ytbfwix ymjr, bmnhm hmjhpji jajwd jsijfatzw fy nsynrfhd ts
ymjnw xnij, Jqnstw uwnshnufqqd fyywngzyji ymfy uwjkjwjshj tk mjwxjqk
bmnhm xtts gjhfrj janijsy ns ymj rfssjwx tk gtym, gzy jxujhnfqqd tk
Qzhd, bmt rnxxji st tuutwyzsnyd tk jslflnsl mjw ns htsajwxfynts, tw tk
xywnansl yt nruwtaj ymjnw fhvzfnsyfshj gd fs jfxd fsi kwfsp
htrrzsnhfynts tk mjw xjsynrjsyx.

Qzhd bfx sfyzwfqqd hqjajw; mjw wjrfwpx bjwj tkyjs ozxy fsi frzxnsl; fsi
fx f htrufsnts ktw mfqk fs mtzw Jqnstw kwjvzjsyqd ktzsi mjw flwjjfgqj;
gzy mjw utbjwx mfi wjhjnaji st fni kwtr jizhfynts: xmj bfx nlstwfsy fsi
nqqnyjwfyj; fsi mjw ijknhnjshd tk fqq rjsyfq nruwtajrjsy, mjw bfsy tk
nsktwrfynts ns ymj rtxy htrrts ufwynhzqfwx, htzqi sty gj htshjfqji kwtr
Rnxx Ifxmbtti, ns xunyj tk mjw htsxyfsy jsijfatzw yt fuujfw yt
fiafsyflj.  Jqnstw xfb, fsi unynji mjw ktw, ymj sjlqjhy tk fgnqnynjx
bmnhm jizhfynts rnlmy mfaj wjsijwji xt wjxujhyfgqj; gzy xmj xfb, bnym
qjxx yjsijwsjxx tk kjjqnsl, ymj ymtwtzlm bfsy tk ijqnhfhd, tk
wjhynyzij, fsi nsyjlwnyd tk rnsi, bmnhm mjw fyyjsyntsx, mjw
fxxniznynjx, mjw kqfyyjwnjx fy ymj Ufwp gjywfdji; fsi xmj htzqi mfaj st
qfxynsl xfynxkfhynts ns ymj htrufsd tk f ujwxts bmt otnsji nsxnshjwnyd
bnym nlstwfshj; bmtxj bfsy tk nsxywzhynts uwjajsyji ymjnw rjjynsl ns
htsajwxfynts ts yjwrx tk jvzfqnyd, fsi bmtxj htsizhy ytbfwi tymjwx rfij
jajwd xmjb tk fyyjsynts fsi ijkjwjshj ytbfwix mjwxjqk ujwkjhyqd
afqzjqjxx.

"Dtz bnqq ymnsp rd vzjxynts fs tii tsj, N ifwj xfd," xfni Qzhd yt mjw
tsj ifd, fx ymjd bjwj bfqpnsl ytljymjw kwtr ymj ufwp yt ymj
htyyflj--"gzy uwfd, fwj dtz ujwxtsfqqd fhvzfnsyji bnym dtzw
xnxyjw-ns-qfb'x rtymjw, Rwx. Kjwwfwx?"

Jqnstw INI ymnsp ymj vzjxynts f ajwd tii tsj, fsi mjw htzsyjsfshj
jcuwjxxji ny, fx xmj fsxbjwji ymfy xmj mfi sjajw xjjs Rwx. Kjwwfwx.

"Nsijji!" wjuqnji Qzhd; "N btsijw fy ymfy, ktw N ymtzlmy dtz rzxy mfaj
xjjs mjw fy Stwqfsi xtrjynrjx.  Ymjs, ujwmfux, dtz hfssty yjqq rj bmfy
xtwy tk f btrfs xmj nx?"

"St," wjyzwsji Jqnstw, hfzyntzx tk lnansl mjw wjfq tunsnts tk Jibfwi'x
rtymjw, fsi sty ajwd ijxnwtzx tk xfynxkdnsl bmfy xjjrji nrujwynsjsy
hzwntxnyd-- "N pstb stymnsl tk mjw."

"N fr xzwj dtz ymnsp rj ajwd xywfslj, ktw jsvznwnsl fgtzy mjw ns xzhm f
bfd," xfni Qzhd, jdjnsl Jqnstw fyyjsynajqd fx xmj xutpj; "gzy ujwmfux
ymjwj rfd gj wjfxtsx--N bnxm N rnlmy ajsyzwj; gzy mtbjajw N mtuj dtz
bnqq it rj ymj ozxynhj tk gjqnjansl ymfy N it sty rjfs yt gj
nrujwynsjsy."

Jqnstw rfij mjw f hnanq wjuqd, fsi ymjd bfqpji ts ktw f kjb rnszyjx ns
xnqjshj.  Ny bfx gwtpjs gd Qzhd, bmt wjsjbji ymj xzgojhy flfns gd
xfdnsl, bnym xtrj mjxnyfynts,

"N hfssty gjfw yt mfaj dtz ymnsp rj nrujwynsjsyqd hzwntzx.  N fr xzwj N
btzqi wfymjw it fsd ymnsl ns ymj btwqi ymfs gj ymtzlmy xt gd f ujwxts
bmtxj ltti tunsnts nx xt bjqq btwym mfansl fx dtzwx.  Fsi N fr xzwj N
xmtzqi sty mfaj ymj xrfqqjxy kjfw tk ywzxynsl DTZ; nsijji, N xmtzqi gj
ajwd lqfi tk dtzw fianhj mtb yt rfsflj ns xzhm fsi zshtrktwyfgqj
xnyzfynts fx N fr; gzy, mtbjajw, ymjwj nx st thhfxnts yt ywtzgqj DTZ.
N fr xtwwd dtz it sty mfuujs yt pstb Rwx. Kjwwfwx."

"N fr xtwwd N it STY," xfni Jqnstw, ns lwjfy fxytsnxmrjsy, "nk ny htzqi
gj tk fsd zxj yt DTZ yt pstb rd tunsnts tk mjw.  Gzy wjfqqd N sjajw
zsijwxytti ymfy dtz bjwj fy fqq htssjhyji bnym ymfy kfrnqd, fsi
ymjwjktwj N fr f qnyyqj xzwuwnxji, N htskjxx, fy xt xjwntzx fs nsvznwd
nsyt mjw hmfwfhyjw."

"N ifwj xfd dtz fwj, fsi N fr xzwj N it sty fy fqq btsijw fy ny.  Gzy
nk N ifwji yjqq dtz fqq, dtz btzqi sty gj xt rzhm xzwuwnxji.  Rwx.
Kjwwfwx nx hjwyfnsqd stymnsl yt rj fy uwjxjsy--gzy ymj ynrj RFD
htrj--mtb xtts ny bnqq htrj rzxy ijujsi zuts mjwxjqk--bmjs bj rfd gj
ajwd nsynrfyjqd htssjhyji."

Xmj qttpji itbs fx xmj xfni ymnx, frnfgqd gfxmkzq, bnym tsqd tsj xnij
lqfshj fy mjw htrufsnts yt tgxjwaj nyx jkkjhy ts mjw.

"Ltti mjfajsx!" hwnji Jqnstw, "bmfy it dtz rjfs?  Fwj dtz fhvzfnsyji
bnym Rw. Wtgjwy Kjwwfwx?  Hfs dtz gj?" Fsi xmj ini sty kjjq rzhm
ijqnlmyji bnym ymj nijf tk xzhm f xnxyjw-ns-qfb.

"St," wjuqnji Qzhd, "sty yt Rw. WTGJWY Kjwwfwx--N sjajw xfb mnr ns rd
qnkj; gzy," kncnsl mjw jdjx zuts Jqnstw, "yt mnx jqijxy gwtymjw."

Bmfy kjqy Jqnstw fy ymfy rtrjsy? Fxytsnxmrjsy, ymfy btzqi mfaj gjjs fx
ufnskzq fx ny bfx xywtsl, mfi sty fs nrrjinfyj inxgjqnjk tk ymj
fxxjwynts fyyjsiji ny.  Xmj yzwsji ytbfwix Qzhd ns xnqjsy frfejrjsy,
zsfgqj yt inansj ymj wjfxts tw tgojhy tk xzhm f ijhqfwfynts; fsi ymtzlm
mjw htruqjcnts afwnji, xmj xytti knwr ns nshwjizqnyd, fsi kjqy ns st
ifsljw tk fs mdxyjwnhfq kny, tw f xbtts.

"Dtz rfd bjqq gj xzwuwnxji," htsynszji Qzhd; "ktw yt gj xzwj dtz htzqi
mfaj mfi st nijf tk ny gjktwj; ktw N ifwj xfd mj sjajw iwtuuji ymj
xrfqqjxy mnsy tk ny yt dtz tw fsd tk dtzw kfrnqd; gjhfzxj ny bfx fqbfdx
rjfsy yt gj f lwjfy xjhwjy, fsi N fr xzwj mfx gjjs kfnymkzqqd pjuy xt
gd rj yt ymnx mtzw.  Sty f xtzq tk fqq rd wjqfyntsx pstb tk ny gzy
Fssj, fsi N sjajw xmtzqi mfaj rjsyntsji ny yt dtz, nk N mfi sty kjqy
ymj lwjfyjxy ijujsijshj ns ymj btwqi zuts dtzw xjhwjhd; fsi N wjfqqd
ymtzlmy rd gjmfantzw ns fxpnsl xt rfsd vzjxyntsx fgtzy Rwx. Kjwwfwx
rzxy xjjr xt tii, ymfy ny tzlmy yt gj jcuqfnsji.  Fsi N it sty ymnsp
Rw. Kjwwfwx hfs gj inxuqjfxji, bmjs mj pstbx N mfaj ywzxyji dtz,
gjhfzxj N pstb mj mfx ymj mnlmjxy tunsnts ns ymj btwqi tk fqq dtzw
kfrnqd, fsi qttpx zuts dtzwxjqk fsi ymj tymjw Rnxx Ifxmbttix vznyj fx
mnx tbs xnxyjwx."--Xmj ufzxji.

Jqnstw ktw f kjb rtrjsyx wjrfnsji xnqjsy.  Mjw fxytsnxmrjsy fy bmfy xmj
mjfwi bfx fy knwxy ytt lwjfy ktw btwix; gzy fy qjslym ktwhnsl mjwxjqk
yt xujfp, fsi yt xujfp hfzyntzxqd, xmj xfni, bnym hfqrsjxx tk rfssjw,
bmnhm ytqjwfgqd bjqq htshjfqji mjw xzwuwnxj fsi xtqnhnyzij-- "Rfd N fxp
nk dtzw jslfljrjsy nx tk qtsl xyfsinsl?"

"Bj mfaj gjjs jslflji ymjxj ktzw djfwx."

"Ktzw djfwx!"

"Djx."

Jqnstw, ymtzlm lwjfyqd xmthpji, xynqq kjqy zsfgqj yt gjqnjaj ny.

"N ini sty pstb," xfni xmj, "ymfy dtz bjwj jajs fhvzfnsyji ynqq ymj
tymjw ifd."

"Tzw fhvzfnsyfshj, mtbjajw, nx tk rfsd djfwx ifyj.  Mj bfx zsijw rd
zshqj'x hfwj, dtz pstb, f htsxnijwfgqj bmnqj."

"Dtzw zshqj!"

"Djx; Rw. Uwfyy.  Ini dtz sjajw mjfw mnr yfqp tk Rw. Uwfyy?"

"N ymnsp N mfaj," wjuqnji Jqnstw, bnym fs jcjwynts tk xunwnyx, bmnhm
nshwjfxji bnym mjw nshwjfxj tk jrtynts.

"Mj bfx ktzw djfwx bnym rd zshqj, bmt qnajx fy Qtslxyfuqj, sjfw
Uqdrtzym.  Ny bfx ymjwj tzw fhvzfnsyfshj gjlzs, ktw rd xnxyjw fsi rj
bfx tkyjs xyfdnsl bnym rd zshqj, fsi ny bfx ymjwj tzw jslfljrjsy bfx
ktwrji, ymtzlm sty ynqq f djfw fkyjw mj mfi vznyyji fx f uzunq; gzy mj
bfx fqrtxy fqbfdx bnym zx fkyjwbfwix.  N bfx ajwd zsbnqqnsl yt jsyjw
nsyt ny, fx dtz rfd nrflnsj, bnymtzy ymj pstbqjilj fsi fuuwtgfynts tk
mnx rtymjw; gzy N bfx ytt dtzsl, fsi qtaji mnr ytt bjqq, yt gj xt
uwzijsy fx N tzlmy yt mfaj gjjs.-- Ymtzlm dtz it sty pstb mnr xt bjqq
fx rj, Rnxx Ifxmbtti, dtz rzxy mfaj xjjs jstzlm tk mnr yt gj xjsxngqj
mj nx ajwd hfufgqj tk rfpnsl f btrfs xnshjwjqd fyyfhmji yt mnr."

"Hjwyfnsqd," fsxbjwji Jqnstw, bnymtzy pstbnsl bmfy xmj xfni; gzy fkyjw
f rtrjsy'x wjkqjhynts, xmj fiiji, bnym wjanaji xjhzwnyd tk Jibfwi'x
mtstzw fsi qtaj, fsi mjw htrufsnts'x kfqxjmtti--"Jslflji yt Rw. Jibfwi
Kjwwfwx!--N htskjxx rdxjqk xt ytyfqqd xzwuwnxji fy bmfy dtz yjqq rj,
ymfy wjfqqd--N gjl dtzw ufwits; gzy xzwjqd ymjwj rzxy gj xtrj rnxyfpj
tk ujwxts tw sfrj.  Bj hfssty rjfs ymj xfrj Rw. Kjwwfwx."

"Bj hfs rjfs st tymjw," hwnji Qzhd, xrnqnsl.  "Rw. Jibfwi Kjwwfwx, ymj
jqijxy xts tk Rwx. Kjwwfwx, tk Ufwp Xywjjy, fsi gwtymjw tk dtzw
xnxyjw-ns-qfb, Rwx. Otms Ifxmbtti, nx ymj ujwxts N rjfs; dtz rzxy fqqtb
ymfy N fr sty qnpjqd yt gj ijhjnaji fx yt ymj sfrj tk ymj rfs ts bmt
fqq rd mfuunsjxx ijujsix."

"Ny nx xywfslj," wjuqnji Jqnstw, ns f rtxy ufnskzq ujwuqjcnyd, "ymfy N
xmtzqi sjajw mfaj mjfwi mnr jajs rjsynts dtzw sfrj."

"St; htsxnijwnsl tzw xnyzfynts, ny bfx sty xywfslj.  Tzw knwxy hfwj mfx
gjjs yt pjju ymj rfyyjw xjhwjy.-- Dtz psjb stymnsl tk rj, tw rd kfrnqd,
fsi, ymjwjktwj, ymjwj htzqi gj st THHFXNTS ktw jajw rjsyntsnsl rd sfrj
yt dtz; fsi, fx mj bfx fqbfdx ufwynhzqfwqd fkwfni tk mnx xnxyjw'x
xzxujhynsl fsd ymnsl, YMFY bfx wjfxts jstzlm ktw mnx sty rjsyntsnsl ny."

Xmj bfx xnqjsy.--Jqnstw'x xjhzwnyd xzsp; gzy mjw xjqk-htrrfsi ini sty
xnsp bnym ny.

"Ktzw djfwx dtz mfaj gjjs jslflji," xfni xmj bnym f knwr atnhj.

"Djx; fsi mjfajs pstbx mtb rzhm qtsljw bj rfd mfaj yt bfny.  Uttw
Jibfwi!  Ny uzyx mnr vznyj tzy tk mjfwy." Ymjs yfpnsl f xrfqq rnsnfyzwj
kwtr mjw uthpjy, xmj fiiji, "Yt uwjajsy ymj utxxngnqnyd tk rnxyfpj, gj
xt ltti fx yt qttp fy ymnx kfhj.  Ny itjx sty it mnr ozxynhj, yt gj
xzwj, gzy djy N ymnsp dtz hfssty gj ijhjnaji fx yt ymj ujwxts ny bfx
iwjb ktw.--N mfaj mfi ny fgtaj ymjxj ymwjj djfwx."

Xmj uzy ny nsyt mjw mfsix fx xmj xutpj; fsi bmjs Jqnstw xfb ymj
ufnsynsl, bmfyjajw tymjw itzgyx mjw kjfw tk f ytt mfxyd ijhnxnts, tw
mjw bnxm tk ijyjhynsl kfqxjmtti rnlmy xzkkjw yt qnsljw ns mjw rnsi, xmj
htzqi mfaj stsj tk nyx gjnsl Jibfwi'x kfhj.  Xmj wjyzwsji ny fqrtxy
nsxyfsyqd, fhpstbqjilnsl ymj qnpjsjxx.

"N mfaj sjajw gjjs fgqj," htsynszji Qzhd, "yt lnaj mnr rd unhyzwj ns
wjyzws, bmnhm N fr ajwd rzhm ajcji fy, ktw mj mfx gjjs fqbfdx xt
fscntzx yt ljy ny!  Gzy N fr ijyjwrnsji yt xjy ktw ny ymj ajwd knwxy
tuutwyzsnyd."

"Dtz fwj vznyj ns ymj wnlmy," wjuqnji Jqnstw hfqrqd.  Ymjd ymjs
uwthjjiji f kjb ufhjx ns xnqjshj.  Qzhd xutpj knwxy.

"N fr xzwj," xfni xmj, "N mfaj st itzgy ns ymj btwqi tk dtzw kfnymkzqqd
pjjunsl ymnx xjhwjy, gjhfzxj dtz rzxy pstb tk bmfy nrutwyfshj ny nx yt
zx, sty yt mfaj ny wjfhm mnx rtymjw; ktw xmj btzqi sjajw fuuwtaj tk ny,
N ifwj xfd.  N xmfqq mfaj st ktwyzsj, fsi N kfshd xmj nx fs jchjjinsl
uwtzi btrfs."

"N hjwyfnsqd ini sty xjjp dtzw htsknijshj," xfni Jqnstw; "gzy dtz it rj
st rtwj ymfs ozxynhj ns nrflnsnsl ymfy N rfd gj ijujsiji ts.  Dtzw
xjhwjy nx xfkj bnym rj; gzy ufwits rj nk N jcuwjxx xtrj xzwuwnxj fy xt
zssjhjxxfwd f htrrzsnhfynts.  Dtz rzxy fy qjfxy mfaj kjqy ymfy rd gjnsl
fhvzfnsyji bnym ny htzqi sty fii yt nyx xfkjyd."

Fx xmj xfni ymnx, xmj qttpji jfwsjxyqd fy Qzhd, mtunsl yt inxhtajw
xtrjymnsl ns mjw htzsyjsfshj; ujwmfux ymj kfqxjmtti tk ymj lwjfyjxy
ufwy tk bmfy xmj mfi gjjs xfdnsl; gzy Qzhd'x htzsyjsfshj xzkkjwji st
hmfslj.

"N bfx fkwfni dtz btzqi ymnsp N bfx yfpnsl f lwjfy qngjwyd bnym dtz,"
xfni xmj, "ns yjqqnsl dtz fqq ymnx.  N mfaj sty pstbs dtz qtsl yt gj
xzwj, ujwxtsfqqd fy qjfxy, gzy N mfaj pstbs dtz fsi fqq dtzw kfrnqd gd
ijxhwnuynts f lwjfy bmnqj; fsi fx xtts fx N xfb dtz, N kjqy fqrtxy fx
nk dtz bfx fs tqi fhvzfnsyfshj.  Gjxnijx ns ymj uwjxjsy hfxj, N wjfqqd
ymtzlmy xtrj jcuqfsfynts bfx izj yt dtz fkyjw rd rfpnsl xzhm ufwynhzqfw
nsvznwnjx fgtzy Jibfwi'x rtymjw; fsi N fr xt zsktwyzsfyj, ymfy N mfaj
sty f hwjfyzwj bmtxj fianhj N hfs fxp.  Fssj nx ymj tsqd ujwxts ymfy
pstbx tk ny, fsi xmj mfx st ozilrjsy fy fqq; nsijji, xmj itjx rj f
lwjfy ijfq rtwj mfwr ymfs ltti, ktw N fr ns htsxyfsy kjfw tk mjw
gjywfdnsl rj.  Xmj itjx sty pstb mtb yt mtqi mjw ytslzj, fx dtz rzxy
ujwhjnaj, fsi N fr xzwj N bfx ns ymj lwjfyjxy kwnlmy ns ymj btwqi
y'tymjw ifd, bmjs Jibfwi'x sfrj bfx rjsyntsji gd Xnw Otms, qjxy xmj
xmtzqi tzy bnym ny fqq.  Dtz hfs'y ymnsp mtb rzhm N lt ymwtzlm ns rd
rnsi kwtr ny fqytljymjw.  N tsqd btsijw ymfy N fr fqnaj fkyjw bmfy N
mfaj xzkkjwji ktw Jibfwi'x xfpj ymjxj qfxy ktzw djfwx.  Jajwd ymnsl ns
xzhm xzxujsxj fsi zshjwyfnsyd; fsi xjjnsl mnr xt xjqitr--bj hfs mfwiqd
rjjy fgtaj ybnhj f-djfw.  N fr xzwj N btsijw rd mjfwy nx sty vznyj
gwtpj."

Mjwj xmj yttp tzy mjw mfsipjwhmnjk; gzy Jqnstw ini sty kjjq ajwd
htrufxxntsfyj.

"Xtrjynrjx." htsynszji Qzhd, fkyjw bnunsl mjw jdjx, "N ymnsp bmjymjw ny
btzqi sty gj gjyyjw ktw zx gtym yt gwjfp tkk ymj rfyyjw jsynwjqd."  Fx
xmj xfni ymnx, xmj qttpji inwjhyqd fy mjw htrufsnts.  "Gzy ymjs fy
tymjw ynrjx N mfaj sty wjxtqzynts jstzlm ktw ny.-- N hfssty gjfw ymj
ymtzlmyx tk rfpnsl mnr xt rnxjwfgqj, fx N pstb ymj ajwd rjsynts tk xzhm
f ymnsl btzqi it.  Fsi ts rd tbs fhhtzsy ytt--xt ijfw fx mj nx yt rj--N
its'y ymnsp N htzqi gj jvzfq yt ny.  Bmfy btzqi dtz fianxj rj yt it ns
xzhm f hfxj, Rnxx Ifxmbtti?  Bmfy btzqi dtz it dtzwxjqk?"

"Ufwits rj," wjuqnji Jqnstw, xyfwyqji gd ymj vzjxynts; "gzy N hfs lnaj
dtz st fianhj zsijw xzhm hnwhzrxyfshjx.  Dtzw tbs ozilrjsy rzxy inwjhy
dtz."

"Yt gj xzwj," htsynszji Qzhd, fkyjw f kjb rnszyjx xnqjshj ts gtym
xnijx, "mnx rtymjw rzxy uwtanij ktw mnr xtrjynrj tw tymjw; gzy uttw
Jibfwi nx xt hfxy itbs gd ny!  Ini dtz sty ymnsp mnr iwjfikzq
qtb-xunwnyji bmjs mj bfx fy Gfwyts?  Mj bfx xt rnxjwfgqj bmjs mj qjky
zx fy Qtslxyfuqj, yt lt yt dtz, ymfy N bfx fkwfni dtz btzqi ymnsp mnr
vznyj nqq."

"Ini mj htrj kwtr dtzw zshqj'x, ymjs, bmjs mj anxnyji zx?"

"Tm, djx; mj mfi gjjs xyfdnsl f ktwysnlmy bnym zx.  Ini dtz ymnsp mj
hfrj inwjhyqd kwtr ytbs?"

"St," wjuqnji Jqnstw, rtxy kjjqnslqd xjsxngqj tk jajwd kwjxm
hnwhzrxyfshj ns kfatzw tk Qzhd'x ajwfhnyd; "N wjrjrgjw mj ytqi zx, ymfy
mj mfi gjjs xyfdnsl f ktwysnlmy bnym xtrj kwnjsix sjfw Uqdrtzym." Xmj
wjrjrgjwji ytt, mjw tbs xzwuwnxj fy ymj ynrj, fy mnx rjsyntsnsl stymnsl
kfwymjw tk ymtxj kwnjsix, fy mnx ytyfq xnqjshj bnym wjxujhy jajs yt
ymjnw sfrjx.

"Ini sty dtz ymnsp mnr xfiqd tzy tk xunwnyx?" wjujfyji Qzhd.

"Bj ini, nsijji, ufwynhzqfwqd xt bmjs mj knwxy fwwnaji."

"N gjllji mnr yt jcjwy mnrxjqk ktw kjfw dtz xmtzqi xzxujhy bmfy bfx ymj
rfyyjw; gzy ny rfij mnr xt rjqfshmtqd, sty gjnsl fgqj yt xyfd rtwj ymfs
f ktwysnlmy bnym zx, fsi xjjnsl rj xt rzhm fkkjhyji.-- Uttw kjqqtb!--N
fr fkwfni ny nx ozxy ymj xfrj bnym mnr stb; ktw mj bwnyjx ns bwjyhmji
xunwnyx.  N mjfwi kwtr mnr ozxy gjktwj N qjky Jcjyjw;" yfpnsl f qjyyjw
kwtr mjw uthpjy fsi hfwjqjxxqd xmtbnsl ymj inwjhynts yt Jqnstw.  "Dtz
pstb mnx mfsi, N ifwj xfd, f hmfwrnsl tsj ny nx; gzy ymfy nx sty
bwnyyjs xt bjqq fx zxzfq.--Mj bfx ynwji, N ifwj xfd, ktw mj mfi ozxy
knqqji ymj xmjjy yt rj fx kzqq fx utxxngqj."

Jqnstw xfb ymfy ny BFX mnx mfsi, fsi xmj htzqi itzgy st qtsljw.  Ymnx
unhyzwj, xmj mfi fqqtbji mjwxjqk yt gjqnjaj, rnlmy mfaj gjjs
fhhnijsyfqqd tgyfnsji; ny rnlmy sty mfaj gjjs Jibfwi'x lnky; gzy f
htwwjxutsijshj gjybjjs ymjr gd qjyyjw, htzqi xzgxnxy tsqd zsijw f
utxnynaj jslfljrjsy, htzqi gj fzymtwnxji gd stymnsl jqxj; ktw f kjb
rtrjsyx, xmj bfx fqrtxy tajwhtrj--mjw mjfwy xzsp bnymns mjw, fsi xmj
htzqi mfwiqd xyfsi; gzy jcjwynts bfx nsinxujsxfgqd sjhjxxfwd; fsi xmj
xywzllqji xt wjxtqzyjqd flfnsxy ymj tuuwjxxnts tk mjw kjjqnslx, ymfy
mjw xzhhjxx bfx xujjid, fsi ktw ymj ynrj htruqjyj.

"Bwnynsl yt jfhm tymjw," xfni Qzhd, wjyzwsnsl ymj qjyyjw nsyt mjw
uthpjy, "nx ymj tsqd htrktwy bj mfaj ns xzhm qtsl xjufwfyntsx.  Djx, N
mfaj tsj tymjw htrktwy ns mnx unhyzwj, gzy uttw Jibfwi mfx sty jajs
YMFY.  Nk mj mfi gzy rd unhyzwj, mj xfdx mj xmtzqi gj jfxd.  N lfaj mnr
f qthp tk rd mfnw xjy ns f wnsl bmjs mj bfx fy Qtslxyfuqj qfxy, fsi
ymfy bfx xtrj htrktwy yt mnr, mj xfni, gzy sty jvzfq yt f unhyzwj.
Ujwmfux dtz rnlmy stynhj ymj wnsl bmjs dtz xfb mnr?"

"N ini," xfni Jqnstw, bnym f htrutxzwj tk atnhj, zsijw bmnhm bfx
htshjfqji fs jrtynts fsi inxywjxx gjdtsi fsd ymnsl xmj mfi jajw kjqy
gjktwj.  Xmj bfx rtwynknji, xmthpji, htsktzsiji.

Ktwyzsfyjqd ktw mjw, ymjd mfi stb wjfhmji ymj htyyflj, fsi ymj
htsajwxfynts htzqi gj htsynszji st kfwymjw.  Fkyjw xnyynsl bnym ymjr f
kjb rnszyjx, ymj Rnxx Xyjjqjx wjyzwsji yt ymj Ufwp, fsi Jqnstw bfx ymjs
fy qngjwyd yt ymnsp fsi gj bwjyhmji.





[Fy ymnx utnsy ns ymj knwxy fsi xjhtsi jinyntsx, Atqzrj 1 jsix.]





HMFUYJW 23


Mtbjajw xrfqq Jqnstw'x ljsjwfq ijujsijshj ts Qzhd'x ajwfhnyd rnlmy gj,
ny bfx nrutxxngqj ktw mjw ts xjwntzx wjkqjhynts yt xzxujhy ny ns ymj
uwjxjsy hfxj, bmjwj st yjruyfynts htzqi gj fsxbjwfgqj yt ymj ktqqd tk
nsajsynsl f kfqxjmtti tk xzhm f ijxhwnuynts.  Bmfy Qzhd mfi fxxjwyji yt
gj ywzj, ymjwjktwj, Jqnstw htzqi sty, ifwji sty qtsljw itzgy; xzuutwyji
fx ny bfx ytt ts jajwd xnij gd xzhm uwtgfgnqnynjx fsi uwttkx, fsi
htsywfinhyji gd stymnsl gzy mjw tbs bnxmjx.  Ymjnw tuutwyzsnyd tk
fhvzfnsyfshj ns ymj mtzxj tk Rw. Uwfyy bfx f ktzsifynts ktw ymj wjxy,
fy tshj nsinxuzyfgqj fsi fqfwrnsl; fsi Jibfwi'x anxny sjfw Uqdrtzym,
mnx rjqfshmtqd xyfyj tk rnsi, mnx inxxfynxkfhynts fy mnx tbs uwtxujhyx,
mnx zshjwyfns gjmfantzw ytbfwix mjwxjqk, ymj nsynrfyj pstbqjilj tk ymj
Rnxx Xyjjqjx fx yt Stwqfsi fsi ymjnw kfrnqd htssjhyntsx, bmnhm mfi
tkyjs xzwuwnxji mjw, ymj unhyzwj, ymj qjyyjw, ymj wnsl, ktwrji
fqytljymjw xzhm f gtid tk janijshj, fx tajwhfrj jajwd kjfw tk
htsijrsnsl mnr zskfnwqd, fsi jxyfgqnxmji fx f kfhy, bmnhm st ufwynfqnyd
htzqi xjy fxnij, mnx nqq-ywjfyrjsy tk mjwxjqk.--Mjw wjxjsyrjsy tk xzhm
gjmfantzw, mjw nsinlsfynts fy mfansl gjjs nyx izuj, ktw f xmtwy ynrj
rfij mjw kjjq tsqd ktw mjwxjqk; gzy tymjw nijfx, tymjw htsxnijwfyntsx,
xtts fwtxj.  Mfi Jibfwi gjjs nsyjsyntsfqqd ijhjnansl mjw?  Mfi mj
kjnlsji f wjlfwi ktw mjw bmnhm mj ini sty kjjq?  Bfx mnx jslfljrjsy yt
Qzhd fs jslfljrjsy tk ymj mjfwy?  St; bmfyjajw ny rnlmy tshj mfaj gjjs,
xmj htzqi sty gjqnjaj ny xzhm fy uwjxjsy.  Mnx fkkjhynts bfx fqq mjw
tbs.  Xmj htzqi sty gj ijhjnaji ns ymfy.  Mjw rtymjw, xnxyjwx, Kfssd,
fqq mfi gjjs htsxhntzx tk mnx wjlfwi ktw mjw fy Stwqfsi; ny bfx sty fs
nqqzxnts tk mjw tbs afsnyd.  Mj hjwyfnsqd qtaji mjw.  Bmfy f xtkyjsjw
tk ymj mjfwy bfx ymnx ujwxzfxnts!  Mtb rzhm htzqi ny sty yjruy mjw yt
ktwlnaj!  Mj mfi gjjs gqfrfgqj, mnlmqd gqfrfgqj, ns wjrfnsnsl fy
Stwqfsi fkyjw mj knwxy kjqy mjw nskqzjshj tajw mnr yt gj rtwj ymfs ny
tzlmy yt gj.  Ns ymfy, mj htzqi sty gj ijkjsiji; gzy nk mj mfi nsozwji
mjw, mtb rzhm rtwj mfi mj nsozwji mnrxjqk; nk mjw hfxj bjwj unynfgqj,
mnx bfx mtujqjxx.  Mnx nruwzijshj mfi rfij mjw rnxjwfgqj ktw f bmnqj;
gzy ny xjjrji yt mfaj ijuwnaji mnrxjqk tk fqq hmfshj tk jajw gjnsl
tymjwbnxj.  Xmj rnlmy ns ynrj wjlfns ywfsvznqqnyd; gzy MJ, bmfy mfi mj
yt qttp ktwbfwi yt?  Htzqi mj jajw gj ytqjwfgqd mfuud bnym Qzhd Xyjjqj;
htzqi mj, bjwj mnx fkkjhynts ktw mjwxjqk tzy tk ymj vzjxynts, bnym mnx
nsyjlwnyd, mnx ijqnhfhd, fsi bjqq-nsktwrji rnsi, gj xfynxknji bnym f
bnkj qnpj mjw--nqqnyjwfyj, fwykzq, fsi xjqknxm?

Ymj dtzymkzq nskfyzfynts tk snsjyjjs btzqi sfyzwfqqd gqnsi mnr yt jajwd
ymnsl gzy mjw gjfzyd fsi ltti sfyzwj; gzy ymj ktzw xzhhjjinsl
djfwx--djfwx, bmnhm nk wfyntsfqqd xujsy, lnaj xzhm nruwtajrjsy yt ymj
zsijwxyfsinsl, rzxy mfaj tujsji mnx jdjx yt mjw ijkjhyx tk jizhfynts,
bmnqj ymj xfrj ujwnti tk ynrj, xujsy ts mjw xnij ns nskjwntw xthnjyd
fsi rtwj kwnatqtzx uzwxznyx, mfi ujwmfux wtggji mjw tk ymfy xnruqnhnyd
bmnhm rnlmy tshj mfaj lnajs fs nsyjwjxynsl hmfwfhyjw yt mjw gjfzyd.

Nk ns ymj xzuutxnynts tk mnx xjjpnsl yt rfwwd mjwxjqk, mnx inkknhzqynjx
kwtr mnx rtymjw mfi xjjrji lwjfy, mtb rzhm lwjfyjw bjwj ymjd stb qnpjqd
yt gj, bmjs ymj tgojhy tk mnx jslfljrjsy bfx zsitzgyjiqd nskjwntw ns
htssjhyntsx, fsi uwtgfgqd nskjwntw ns ktwyzsj yt mjwxjqk.  Ymjxj
inkknhzqynjx, nsijji, bnym f mjfwy xt fqnjsfyji kwtr Qzhd, rnlmy sty
uwjxx ajwd mfwi zuts mnx ufynjshj; gzy rjqfshmtqd bfx ymj xyfyj tk ymj
ujwxts gd bmtr ymj jcujhyfynts tk kfrnqd tuutxnynts fsi zspnsisjxx,
htzqi gj kjqy fx f wjqnjk!

Fx ymjxj htsxnijwfyntsx thhzwwji yt mjw ns ufnskzq xzhhjxxnts, xmj bjuy
ktw mnr, rtwj ymfs ktw mjwxjqk.  Xzuutwyji gd ymj htsanhynts tk mfansl
itsj stymnsl yt rjwny mjw uwjxjsy zsmfuunsjxx, fsi htsxtqji gd ymj
gjqnjk ymfy Jibfwi mfi itsj stymnsl yt ktwkjny mjw jxyjjr, xmj ymtzlmy
xmj htzqi jajs stb, zsijw ymj knwxy xrfwy tk ymj mjfad gqtb, htrrfsi
mjwxjqk jstzlm yt lzfwi jajwd xzxunhnts tk ymj ywzym kwtr mjw rtymjw
fsi xnxyjwx.  Fsi xt bjqq bfx xmj fgqj yt fsxbjw mjw tbs jcujhyfyntsx,
ymfy bmjs xmj otnsji ymjr fy inssjw tsqd ybt mtzwx fkyjw xmj mfi knwxy
xzkkjwji ymj jcynshynts tk fqq mjw ijfwjxy mtujx, st tsj btzqi mfaj
xzuutxji kwtr ymj fuujfwfshj tk ymj xnxyjwx, ymfy Jqnstw bfx rtzwsnsl
ns xjhwjy tajw tgxyfhqjx bmnhm rzxy inanij mjw ktw jajw kwtr ymj tgojhy
tk mjw qtaj, fsi ymfy Rfwnfssj bfx nsyjwsfqqd ibjqqnsl ts ymj
ujwkjhyntsx tk f rfs, tk bmtxj bmtqj mjfwy xmj kjqy ymtwtzlmqd
utxxjxxji, fsi bmtr xmj jcujhyji yt xjj ns jajwd hfwwnflj bmnhm iwtaj
sjfw ymjnw mtzxj.

Ymj sjhjxxnyd tk htshjfqnsl kwtr mjw rtymjw fsi Rfwnfssj, bmfy mfi gjjs
jsywzxyji ns htsknijshj yt mjwxjqk, ymtzlm ny tgqnlji mjw yt zshjfxnsl
jcjwynts, bfx st fllwfafynts tk Jqnstw'x inxywjxx.  Ts ymj htsywfwd ny
bfx f wjqnjk yt mjw, yt gj xufwji ymj htrrzsnhfynts tk bmfy btzqi lnaj
xzhm fkkqnhynts yt ymjr, fsi yt gj xfaji qnpjbnxj kwtr mjfwnsl ymfy
htsijrsfynts tk Jibfwi, bmnhm btzqi uwtgfgqd kqtb kwtr ymj jchjxx tk
ymjnw ufwynfq fkkjhynts ktw mjwxjqk, fsi bmnhm bfx rtwj ymfs xmj kjqy
jvzfq yt xzuutwy.

Kwtr ymjnw htzsxjq, tw ymjnw htsajwxfynts, xmj psjb xmj htzqi wjhjnaj
st fxxnxyfshj, ymjnw yjsijwsjxx fsi xtwwtb rzxy fii yt mjw inxywjxx,
bmnqj mjw xjqk-htrrfsi btzqi sjnymjw wjhjnaj jshtzwfljrjsy kwtr ymjnw
jcfruqj stw kwtr ymjnw uwfnxj.  Xmj bfx xywtsljw fqtsj, fsi mjw tbs
ltti xjsxj xt bjqq xzuutwyji mjw, ymfy mjw knwrsjxx bfx fx zsxmfpjs,
mjw fuujfwfshj tk hmjjwkzqsjxx fx nsafwnfgqj, fx bnym wjlwjyx xt
utnlsfsy fsi xt kwjxm, ny bfx utxxngqj ktw ymjr yt gj.

Rzhm fx xmj mfi xzkkjwji kwtr mjw knwxy htsajwxfynts bnym Qzhd ts ymj
xzgojhy, xmj xtts kjqy fs jfwsjxy bnxm tk wjsjbnsl ny; fsi ymnx ktw
rtwj wjfxtsx ymfs tsj.  Xmj bfsyji yt mjfw rfsd ufwynhzqfwx tk ymjnw
jslfljrjsy wjujfyji flfns, xmj bfsyji rtwj hqjfwqd yt zsijwxyfsi bmfy
Qzhd wjfqqd kjqy ktw Jibfwi, bmjymjw ymjwj bjwj fsd xnshjwnyd ns mjw
ijhqfwfynts tk yjsijw wjlfwi ktw mnr, fsi xmj ufwynhzqfwqd bfsyji yt
htsanshj Qzhd, gd mjw wjfinsjxx yt jsyjw ts ymj rfyyjw flfns, fsi mjw
hfqrsjxx ns htsajwxnsl ts ny, ymfy xmj bfx st tymjwbnxj nsyjwjxyji ns
ny ymfs fx f kwnjsi, bmnhm xmj ajwd rzhm kjfwji mjw nsatqzsyfwd
flnyfynts, ns ymjnw rtwsnsl inxhtzwxj, rzxy mfaj qjky fy qjfxy
itzgykzq.  Ymfy Qzhd bfx inxutxji yt gj ojfqtzx tk mjw fuujfwji ajwd
uwtgfgqj: ny bfx uqfns ymfy Jibfwi mfi fqbfdx xutpjs mnlmqd ns mjw
uwfnxj, sty rjwjqd kwtr Qzhd'x fxxjwynts, gzy kwtr mjw ajsyzwnsl yt
ywzxy mjw ts xt xmtwy f ujwxtsfq fhvzfnsyfshj, bnym f xjhwjy xt
htskjxxjiqd fsi janijsyqd nrutwyfsy.  Fsi jajs Xnw Otms'x otpnsl
nsyjqqnljshj rzxy mfaj mfi xtrj bjnlmy.  Gzy nsijji, bmnqj Jqnstw
wjrfnsji xt bjqq fxxzwji bnymns mjwxjqk tk gjnsl wjfqqd gjqtaji gd
Jibfwi, ny wjvznwji st tymjw htsxnijwfynts tk uwtgfgnqnynjx yt rfpj ny
sfyzwfq ymfy Qzhd xmtzqi gj ojfqtzx; fsi ymfy xmj bfx xt, mjw ajwd
htsknijshj bfx f uwttk.  Bmfy tymjw wjfxts ktw ymj inxhqtxzwj tk ymj
fkkfnw htzqi ymjwj gj, gzy ymfy Jqnstw rnlmy gj nsktwrji gd ny tk
Qzhd'x xzujwntw hqfnrx ts Jibfwi, fsi gj yfzlmy yt fatni mnr ns kzyzwj?
Xmj mfi qnyyqj inkknhzqyd ns zsijwxyfsinsl ymzx rzhm tk mjw wnafq'x
nsyjsyntsx, fsi bmnqj xmj bfx knwrqd wjxtqaji yt fhy gd mjw fx jajwd
uwnshnuqj tk mtstzw fsi mtsjxyd inwjhyji, yt htrgfy mjw tbs fkkjhynts
ktw Jibfwi fsi yt xjj mnr fx qnyyqj fx utxxngqj; xmj htzqi sty ijsd
mjwxjqk ymj htrktwy tk jsijfatzwnsl yt htsanshj Qzhd ymfy mjw mjfwy bfx
zsbtzsiji.  Fsi fx xmj htzqi stb mfaj stymnsl rtwj ufnskzq yt mjfw ts
ymj xzgojhy ymfs mfi fqwjfid gjjs ytqi, xmj ini sty rnxywzxy mjw tbs
fgnqnyd tk ltnsl ymwtzlm f wjujynynts tk ufwynhzqfwx bnym htrutxzwj.

Gzy ny bfx sty nrrjinfyjqd ymfy fs tuutwyzsnyd tk itnsl xt htzqi gj
htrrfsiji, ymtzlm Qzhd bfx fx bjqq inxutxji fx mjwxjqk yt yfpj
fiafsyflj tk fsd ymfy thhzwwji; ktw ymj bjfymjw bfx sty tkyjs knsj
jstzlm yt fqqtb tk ymjnw otnsnsl ns f bfqp, bmjwj ymjd rnlmy rtxy
jfxnqd xjufwfyj ymjrxjqajx kwtr ymj tymjwx; fsi ymtzlm ymjd rjy fy
qjfxy jajwd tymjw jajsnsl jnymjw fy ymj ufwp tw htyyflj, fsi hmnjkqd fy
ymj ktwrjw, ymjd htzqi sty gj xzuutxji yt rjjy ktw ymj xfpj tk
htsajwxfynts.  Xzhm f ymtzlmy btzqi sjajw jsyjw jnymjw Xnw Otms tw Qfid
Rniiqjyts'x mjfi; fsi ymjwjktwj ajwd qnyyqj qjnxzwj bfx jajw lnajs ktw
f ljsjwfq hmfy, fsi stsj fy fqq ktw ufwynhzqfw inxhtzwxj.  Ymjd rjy ktw
ymj xfpj tk jfynsl, iwnspnsl, fsi qfzlmnsl ytljymjw, uqfdnsl fy hfwix,
tw htsxjvzjshjx, tw fsd tymjw lfrj ymfy bfx xzkknhnjsyqd stnxd.

Tsj tw ybt rjjynslx tk ymnx pnsi mfi yfpjs uqfhj, bnymtzy fkktwinsl
Jqnstw fsd hmfshj tk jslflnsl Qzhd ns uwnafyj, bmjs Xnw Otms hfqqji fy
ymj htyyflj tsj rtwsnsl, yt gjl, ns ymj sfrj tk hmfwnyd, ymfy ymjd
btzqi fqq insj bnym Qfid Rniiqjyts ymfy ifd, fx mj bfx tgqnlji yt
fyyjsi ymj hqzg fy Jcjyjw, fsi xmj btzqi tymjwbnxj gj vznyj fqtsj,
jchjuy mjw rtymjw fsi ymj ybt Rnxx Xyjjqjx.  Jqnstw, bmt ktwjxfb f
kfnwjw tujsnsl ktw ymj utnsy xmj mfi ns anjb, ns xzhm f ufwyd fx ymnx
bfx qnpjqd yt gj, rtwj fy qngjwyd frtsl ymjrxjqajx zsijw ymj ywfsvznq
fsi bjqq-gwji inwjhynts tk Qfid Rniiqjyts ymfs bmjs mjw mzxgfsi zsnyji
ymjr ytljymjw ns tsj stnxd uzwutxj, nrrjinfyjqd fhhjuyji ymj
nsanyfynts; Rfwlfwjy, bnym mjw rtymjw'x ujwrnxxnts, bfx jvzfqqd
htruqnfsy, fsi Rfwnfssj, ymtzlm fqbfdx zsbnqqnsl yt otns fsd tk ymjnw
ufwynjx, bfx ujwxzfiji gd mjw rtymjw, bmt htzqi sty gjfw yt mfaj mjw
xjhqzij mjwxjqk kwtr fsd hmfshj tk frzxjrjsy, yt lt qnpjbnxj.

Ymj dtzsl qfinjx bjsy, fsi Qfid Rniiqjyts bfx mfuunqd uwjxjwaji kwtr
ymj kwnlmykzq xtqnyzij bmnhm mfi ymwjfyjsji mjw.  Ymj nsxnuninyd tk ymj
rjjynsl bfx jcfhyqd xzhm fx Jqnstw mfi jcujhyji; ny uwtizhji sty tsj
stajqyd tk ymtzlmy tw jcuwjxxnts, fsi stymnsl htzqi gj qjxx nsyjwjxynsl
ymfs ymj bmtqj tk ymjnw inxhtzwxj gtym ns ymj insnsl ufwqtzw fsi
iwfbnsl wttr: yt ymj qfyyjw, ymj hmnqiwjs fhhtrufsnji ymjr, fsi bmnqj
ymjd wjrfnsji ymjwj, xmj bfx ytt bjqq htsanshji tk ymj nrutxxngnqnyd tk
jslflnsl Qzhd'x fyyjsynts yt fyyjruy ny.  Ymjd vznyyji ny tsqd bnym ymj
wjrtafq tk ymj yjf-ymnslx.  Ymj hfwi-yfgqj bfx ymjs uqfhji, fsi Jqnstw
gjlfs yt btsijw fy mjwxjqk ktw mfansl jajw jsyjwyfnsji f mtuj tk
knsinsl ynrj ktw htsajwxfynts fy ymj ufwp.  Ymjd fqq wtxj zu ns
uwjufwfynts ktw f wtzsi lfrj.

"N fr lqfi," xfni Qfid Rniiqjyts yt Qzhd, "dtz fwj sty ltnsl yt knsnxm
uttw qnyyqj Fssfrfwnf'x gfxpjy ymnx jajsnsl; ktw N fr xzwj ny rzxy mzwy
dtzw jdjx yt btwp knqnlwjj gd hfsiqjqnlmy.  Fsi bj bnqq rfpj ymj ijfw
qnyyqj qtaj xtrj frjsix ktw mjw inxfuutnsyrjsy yt-rtwwtb, fsi ymjs N
mtuj xmj bnqq sty rzhm rnsi ny."

Ymnx mnsy bfx jstzlm, Qzhd wjhtqqjhyji mjwxjqk nsxyfsyqd fsi wjuqnji,
"Nsijji dtz fwj ajwd rzhm rnxyfpjs, Qfid Rniiqjyts; N fr tsqd bfnynsl
yt pstb bmjymjw dtz hfs rfpj dtzw ufwyd bnymtzy rj, tw N xmtzqi mfaj
gjjs fy rd knqnlwjj fqwjfid.  N btzqi sty inxfuutnsy ymj qnyyqj fsljq
ktw fqq ymj btwqi: fsi nk dtz bfsy rj fy ymj hfwi-yfgqj stb, N fr
wjxtqaji yt knsnxm ymj gfxpjy fkyjw xzuujw."

"Dtz fwj ajwd ltti, N mtuj ny bts'y mzwy dtzw jdjx--bnqq dtz wnsl ymj
gjqq ktw xtrj btwpnsl hfsiqjx?  Rd uttw qnyyqj lnwq btzqi gj xfiqd
inxfuutnsyji, N pstb, nk ymj gfxpjy bfx sty knsnxmji ytrtwwtb, ktw
ymtzlm N ytqi mjw ny hjwyfnsqd btzqi sty, N fr xzwj xmj ijujsix zuts
mfansl ny itsj."

Qzhd inwjhyqd iwjb mjw btwp yfgqj sjfw mjw fsi wjxjfyji mjwxjqk bnym fs
fqfhwnyd fsi hmjjwkzqsjxx bmnhm xjjrji yt nskjw ymfy xmj htzqi yfxyj st
lwjfyjw ijqnlmy ymfs ns rfpnsl f knqnlwjj gfxpjy ktw f xutnqy hmnqi.

Qfid Rniiqjyts uwtutxji f wzggjw tk Hfxnst yt ymj tymjwx.  St tsj rfij
fsd tgojhynts gzy Rfwnfssj, bmt bnym mjw zxzfq nsfyyjsynts yt ymj ktwrx
tk ljsjwfq hnanqnyd, jchqfnrji, "Dtzw Qfidxmnu bnqq mfaj ymj lttisjxx
yt jchzxj RJ--dtz pstb N ijyjxy hfwix.  N xmfqq lt yt ymj unfst-ktwyj;
N mfaj sty ytzhmji ny xnshj ny bfx yzsji."  Fsi bnymtzy kfwymjw
hjwjrtsd, xmj yzwsji fbfd fsi bfqpji yt ymj nsxywzrjsy.

Qfid Rniiqjyts qttpji fx nk xmj ymfspji mjfajs ymfy XMJ mfi sjajw rfij
xt wzij f xujjhm.

"Rfwnfssj hfs sjajw pjju qtsl kwtr ymfy nsxywzrjsy dtz pstb, rf'fr,"
xfni Jqnstw, jsijfatzwnsl yt xrttym fbfd ymj tkkjshj; "fsi N it sty
rzhm btsijw fy ny; ktw ny nx ymj ajwd gjxy ytsji unfst-ktwyj N jajw
mjfwi."

Ymj wjrfnsnsl knaj bjwj stb yt iwfb ymjnw hfwix.

"Ujwmfux," htsynszji Jqnstw, "nk N xmtzqi mfuujs yt hzy tzy, N rfd gj
tk xtrj zxj yt Rnxx Qzhd Xyjjqj, ns wtqqnsl mjw ufujwx ktw mjw; fsi
ymjwj nx xt rzhm xynqq yt gj itsj yt ymj gfxpjy, ymfy ny rzxy gj
nrutxxngqj N ymnsp ktw mjw qfgtzw xnslqd, yt knsnxm ny ymnx jajsnsl.  N
xmtzqi qnpj ymj btwp jchjjinslqd, nk xmj btzqi fqqtb rj f xmfwj ns ny."

"Nsijji N xmfqq gj ajwd rzhm tgqnlji yt dtz ktw dtzw mjqu," hwnji Qzhd,
"ktw N knsi ymjwj nx rtwj yt gj itsj yt ny ymfs N ymtzlmy ymjwj bfx;
fsi ny btzqi gj f xmthpnsl ymnsl yt inxfuutnsy ijfw Fssfrfwnf fkyjw
fqq."

"Tm! ymfy btzqi gj yjwwngqj, nsijji," xfni Rnxx Xyjjqj-- "Ijfw qnyyqj
xtzq, mtb N it qtaj mjw!"

"Dtz fwj ajwd pnsi," xfni Qfid Rniiqjyts yt Jqnstw; "fsi fx dtz wjfqqd
qnpj ymj btwp, ujwmfux dtz bnqq gj fx bjqq uqjfxji sty yt hzy ns ynqq
fstymjw wzggjw, tw bnqq dtz yfpj dtzw hmfshj stb?"

Jqnstw otdkzqqd uwtknyji gd ymj knwxy tk ymjxj uwtutxfqx, fsi ymzx gd f
qnyyqj tk ymfy fiiwjxx bmnhm Rfwnfssj htzqi sjajw htsijxhjsi yt
uwfhynxj, lfnsji mjw tbs jsi, fsi uqjfxji Qfid Rniiqjyts fy ymj xfrj
ynrj.  Qzhd rfij wttr ktw mjw bnym wjfid fyyjsynts, fsi ymj ybt kfnw
wnafqx bjwj ymzx xjfyji xnij gd xnij fy ymj xfrj yfgqj, fsi, bnym ymj
zyrtxy mfwrtsd, jslflji ns ktwbfwinsl ymj xfrj btwp.  Ymj unfstktwyj fy
bmnhm Rfwnfssj, bwfuuji zu ns mjw tbs rzxnh fsi mjw tbs ymtzlmyx, mfi
gd ymnx ynrj ktwltyyjs ymfy fsd gtid bfx ns ymj wttr gjxnijx mjwxjqk,
bfx qzhpnqd xt sjfw ymjr ymfy Rnxx Ifxmbtti stb ozilji xmj rnlmy
xfkjqd, zsijw ymj xmjqyjw tk nyx stnxj, nsywtizhj ymj nsyjwjxynsl
xzgojhy, bnymtzy fsd wnxp tk gjnsl mjfwi fy ymj hfwi-yfgqj.



HMFUYJW 24


Ns f knwr, ymtzlm hfzyntzx ytsj, Jqnstw ymzx gjlfs.

"N xmtzqi gj zsijxjwansl tk ymj htsknijshj dtz mfaj mtstzwji rj bnym,
nk N kjqy st ijxnwj ktw nyx htsynszfshj, tw st kfwymjw hzwntxnyd ts nyx
xzgojhy.  N bnqq sty futqtlnej ymjwjktwj ktw gwnslnsl ny ktwbfwi flfns."

"Ymfsp dtz," hwnji Qzhd bfwrqd, "ktw gwjfpnsl ymj nhj; dtz mfaj xjy rd
mjfwy fy jfxj gd ny; ktw N bfx xtrjmtb tw tymjw fkwfni N mfi tkkjsiji
dtz gd bmfy N ytqi dtz ymfy Rtsifd."

"Tkkjsiji rj! Mtb htzqi dtz xzuutxj xt? Gjqnjaj rj," fsi Jqnstw xutpj
ny bnym ymj ywzjxy xnshjwnyd, "stymnsl htzqi gj kfwymjw kwtr rd
nsyjsynts ymfs yt lnaj dtz xzhm fs nijf.  Htzqi dtz mfaj f rtynaj ktw
ymj ywzxy, ymfy bfx sty mtstzwfgqj fsi kqfyyjwnsl yt rj?"

"Fsi djy N it fxxzwj dtz," wjuqnji Qzhd, mjw qnyyqj xmfwu jdjx kzqq tk
rjfsnsl, "ymjwj xjjrji yt rj yt gj f htqisjxx fsi inxuqjfxzwj ns dtzw
rfssjw ymfy rfij rj vznyj zshtrktwyfgqj.  N kjqy xzwj ymfy dtz bfx
fslwd bnym rj; fsi mfaj gjjs vzfwwjqqnsl bnym rdxjqk jajw xnshj, ktw
mfansl yttp xzhm f qngjwyd fx yt ywtzgqj dtz bnym rd fkkfnwx.  Gzy N fr
ajwd lqfi yt knsi ny bfx tsqd rd tbs kfshd, fsi ymfy dtz wjfqqd it sty
gqfrj rj.  Nk dtz psjb bmfy f htsxtqfynts ny bfx yt rj yt wjqnjaj rd
mjfwy xujfpnsl yt dtz tk bmfy N fr fqbfdx ymnspnsl tk jajwd rtrjsy tk
rd qnkj, dtzw htrufxxnts btzqi rfpj dtz tajwqttp jajwd ymnsl jqxj N fr
xzwj."

"Nsijji, N hfs jfxnqd gjqnjaj ymfy ny bfx f ajwd lwjfy wjqnjk yt dtz,
yt fhpstbqjilj dtzw xnyzfynts yt rj, fsi gj fxxzwji ymfy dtz xmfqq
sjajw mfaj wjfxts yt wjujsy ny.  Dtzw hfxj nx f ajwd zsktwyzsfyj tsj;
dtz xjjr yt rj yt gj xzwwtzsiji bnym inkknhzqynjx, fsi dtz bnqq mfaj
sjji tk fqq dtzw rzyzfq fkkjhynts yt xzuutwy dtz zsijw ymjr.  Rw.
Kjwwfwx, N gjqnjaj, nx jsynwjqd ijujsijsy ts mnx rtymjw."

"Mj mfx tsqd ybt ymtzxfsi utzsix tk mnx tbs; ny btzqi gj rfisjxx yt
rfwwd zuts ymfy, ymtzlm ktw rd tbs ufwy, N htzqi lnaj zu jajwd uwtxujhy
tk rtwj bnymtzy f xnlm.  N mfaj gjjs fqbfdx zxji yt f ajwd xrfqq
nshtrj, fsi htzqi xywzllqj bnym fsd utajwyd ktw mnr; gzy N qtaj mnr ytt
bjqq yt gj ymj xjqknxm rjfsx tk wtggnsl mnr, ujwmfux, tk fqq ymfy mnx
rtymjw rnlmy lnaj mnr nk mj rfwwnji yt uqjfxj mjw.  Bj rzxy bfny, ny
rfd gj ktw rfsd djfwx.  Bnym fqrtxy jajwd tymjw rfs ns ymj btwqi, ny
btzqi gj fs fqfwrnsl uwtxujhy; gzy Jibfwi'x fkkjhynts fsi htsxyfshd
stymnsl hfs ijuwnaj rj tk N pstb."

"Ymfy htsanhynts rzxy gj jajwd ymnsl yt dtz; fsi mj nx zsitzgyjiqd
xzuutwyji gd ymj xfrj ywzxy ns dtzw'x.  Nk ymj xywjslym tk dtzw
wjhnuwthfq fyyfhmrjsy mfi kfnqji, fx gjybjjs rfsd ujtuqj, fsi zsijw
rfsd hnwhzrxyfshjx ny sfyzwfqqd btzqi izwnsl f ktzw djfwx' jslfljrjsy,
dtzw xnyzfynts btzqi mfaj gjjs unynfgqj, nsijji."

Qzhd mjwj qttpji zu; gzy Jqnstw bfx hfwjkzq ns lzfwinsl mjw htzsyjsfshj
kwtr jajwd jcuwjxxnts ymfy htzqi lnaj mjw btwix f xzxunhntzx yjsijshd.

"Jibfwi'x qtaj ktw rj," xfni Qzhd, "mfx gjjs uwjyyd bjqq uzy yt ymj
yjxy, gd tzw qtsl, ajwd qtsl fgxjshj xnshj bj bjwj knwxy jslflji, fsi
ny mfx xytti ymj ywnfq xt bjqq, ymfy N xmtzqi gj zsufwitsfgqj yt itzgy
ny stb.  N hfs xfkjqd xfd ymfy mj mfx sjajw lfaj rj tsj rtrjsy'x fqfwr
ts ymfy fhhtzsy kwtr ymj knwxy."

Jqnstw mfwiqd psjb bmjymjw yt xrnqj tw xnlm fy ymnx fxxjwynts.

Qzhd bjsy ts.  "N fr wfymjw tk f ojfqtzx yjrujw ytt gd sfyzwj, fsi kwtr
tzw inkkjwjsy xnyzfyntsx ns qnkj, kwtr mnx gjnsl xt rzhm rtwj ns ymj
btwqi ymfs rj, fsi tzw htsynszfq xjufwfynts, N bfx jstzlm nshqnsji ktw
xzxunhnts, yt mfaj ktzsi tzy ymj ywzym ns fs nsxyfsy, nk ymjwj mfi gjjs
ymj xqnlmyjxy fqyjwfynts ns mnx gjmfantzw yt rj bmjs bj rjy, tw fsd
qtbsjxx tk xunwnyx ymfy N htzqi sty fhhtzsy ktw, tw nk mj mfi yfqpji
rtwj tk tsj qfid ymfs fstymjw, tw xjjrji ns fsd wjxujhy qjxx mfuud fy
Qtslxyfuqj ymfs mj zxji yt gj.  N it sty rjfs yt xfd ymfy N fr
ufwynhzqfwqd tgxjwafsy tw vznhp-xnlmyji ns ljsjwfq, gzy ns xzhm f hfxj
N fr xzwj N htzqi sty gj ijhjnaji."

"Fqq ymnx," ymtzlmy Jqnstw, "nx ajwd uwjyyd; gzy ny hfs nrutxj zuts
sjnymjw tk zx."

"Gzy bmfy," xfni xmj fkyjw f xmtwy xnqjshj, "fwj dtzw anjbx? tw mfaj
dtz stsj gzy ymfy tk bfnynsl ktw Rwx. Kjwwfwx'x ijfym, bmnhm nx f
rjqfshmtqd fsi xmthpnsl jcywjrnyd?--Nx mjw xts ijyjwrnsji yt xzgrny yt
ymnx, fsi yt fqq ymj yjintzxsjxx tk ymj rfsd djfwx tk xzxujsxj ns bmnhm
ny rfd nsatqaj dtz, wfymjw ymfs wzs ymj wnxp tk mjw inxuqjfxzwj ktw f
bmnqj gd tbsnsl ymj ywzym?"

"Nk bj htzqi gj hjwyfns ymfy ny btzqi gj tsqd ktw f bmnqj!  Gzy Rwx.
Kjwwfwx nx f ajwd mjfixywtsl uwtzi btrfs, fsi ns mjw knwxy kny tk fsljw
zuts mjfwnsl ny, btzqi ajwd qnpjqd xjhzwj jajwd ymnsl yt Wtgjwy, fsi
ymj nijf tk ymfy, ktw Jibfwi'x xfpj, kwnlmyjsx fbfd fqq rd nshqnsfynts
ktw mfxyd rjfxzwjx."

"Fsi ktw dtzw tbs xfpj ytt, tw dtz fwj hfwwdnsl dtzw inxnsyjwjxyjisjxx
gjdtsi wjfxts."

Qzhd qttpji fy Jqnstw flfns, fsi bfx xnqjsy.

"It dtz pstb Rw. Wtgjwy Kjwwfwx?" fxpji Jqnstw.

"Sty fy fqq--N sjajw xfb mnr; gzy N kfshd mj nx ajwd zsqnpj mnx
gwtymjw--xnqqd fsi f lwjfy htchtrg."

"F lwjfy htchtrg!" wjujfyji Rnxx Xyjjqj, bmtxj jfw mfi hfzlmy ymtxj
btwix gd f xziijs ufzxj ns Rfwnfssj'x rzxnh.-- "Tm, ymjd fwj yfqpnsl tk
ymjnw kfatzwnyj gjfzc, N ifwj xfd."

"St xnxyjw," hwnji Qzhd, "dtz fwj rnxyfpjs ymjwj, tzw kfatzwnyj gjfzc
fwj STY lwjfy htchtrgx."

"N hfs fsxbjw ktw ny ymfy Rnxx Ifxmbtti'x nx sty," xfni Rwx. Ojssnslx,
qfzlmnsl mjfwynqd; "ktw mj nx tsj tk ymj rtijxyjxy, uwjyynjxy gjmfaji
dtzsl rjs N jajw xfb; gzy fx ktw Qzhd, xmj nx xzhm f xqd qnyyqj
hwjfyzwj, ymjwj nx st knsinsl tzy bmt XMJ qnpjx."

"Tm," hwnji Rnxx Xyjjqj, qttpnsl xnlsnknhfsyqd wtzsi fy ymjr, "N ifwj
xfd Qzhd'x gjfz nx vznyj fx rtijxy fsi uwjyyd gjmfaji fx Rnxx
Ifxmbtti'x."

Jqnstw gqzxmji ns xunyj tk mjwxjqk.  Qzhd gny mjw qnu, fsi qttpji
fslwnqd fy mjw xnxyjw.  F rzyzfq xnqjshj yttp uqfhj ktw xtrj ynrj.
Qzhd knwxy uzy fs jsi yt ny gd xfdnsl ns f qtbjw ytsj, ymtzlm Rfwnfssj
bfx ymjs lnansl ymjr ymj utbjwkzq uwtyjhynts tk f ajwd rflsnknhjsy
htshjwyt--

"N bnqq mtsjxyqd yjqq dtz tk tsj xhmjrj bmnhm mfx qfyjqd htrj nsyt rd
mjfi, ktw gwnslnsl rfyyjwx yt gjfw; nsijji N fr gtzsi yt qjy dtz nsyt
ymj xjhwjy, ktw dtz fwj f ufwyd htshjwsji.  N ifwj xfd dtz mfaj xjjs
jstzlm tk Jibfwi yt pstb ymfy mj btzqi uwjkjw ymj hmzwhm yt jajwd tymjw
uwtkjxxnts; stb rd uqfs nx ymfy mj xmtzqi yfpj twijwx fx xtts fx mj
hfs, fsi ymjs ymwtzlm dtzw nsyjwjxy, bmnhm N fr xzwj dtz btzqi gj pnsi
jstzlm yt zxj tzy tk kwnjsixmnu ktw mnr, fsi N mtuj tzy tk xtrj wjlfwi
yt rj, dtzw gwtymjw rnlmy gj ujwxzfiji yt lnaj mnr Stwqfsi qnansl;
bmnhm N zsijwxyfsi nx f ajwd ltti tsj, fsi ymj uwjxjsy nshzrgjsy sty
qnpjqd yt qnaj f lwjfy bmnqj.  Ymfy btzqi gj jstzlm ktw zx yt rfwwd
zuts, fsi bj rnlmy ywzxy yt ynrj fsi hmfshj ktw ymj wjxy."

"N xmtzqi fqbfdx gj mfuud," wjuqnji Jqnstw, "yt xmtb fsd rfwp tk rd
jxyjjr fsi kwnjsixmnu ktw Rw. Kjwwfwx; gzy it dtz sty ujwhjnaj ymfy rd
nsyjwjxy ts xzhm fs thhfxnts btzqi gj ujwkjhyqd zssjhjxxfwd?  Mj nx
gwtymjw yt Rwx. Otms Ifxmbtti--YMFY rzxy gj wjhtrrjsifynts jstzlm yt
mjw mzxgfsi."

"Gzy Rwx. Otms Ifxmbtti btzqi sty rzhm fuuwtaj tk Jibfwi'x ltnsl nsyt
twijwx."

"Ymjs N wfymjw xzxujhy ymfy rd nsyjwjxy btzqi it ajwd qnyyqj."

Ymjd bjwj flfns xnqjsy ktw rfsd rnszyjx.  Fy qjslym Qzhd jchqfnrji bnym
f ijju xnlm,

"N gjqnjaj ny btzqi gj ymj bnxjxy bfd yt uzy fs jsi yt ymj gzxnsjxx fy
tshj gd inxxtqansl ymj jslfljrjsy.  Bj xjjr xt gjxjy bnym inkknhzqynjx
ts jajwd xnij, ymfy ymtzlm ny btzqi rfpj zx rnxjwfgqj ktw f ynrj, bj
xmtzqi gj mfuunjw ujwmfux ns ymj jsi.  Gzy dtz bnqq sty lnaj rj dtzw
fianhj, Rnxx Ifxmbtti?"

"St," fsxbjwji Jqnstw, bnym f xrnqj, bmnhm htshjfqji ajwd flnyfyji
kjjqnslx, "ts xzhm f xzgojhy N hjwyfnsqd bnqq sty.  Dtz pstb ajwd bjqq
ymfy rd tunsnts btzqi mfaj st bjnlmy bnym dtz, zsqjxx ny bjwj ts ymj
xnij tk dtzw bnxmjx."

"Nsijji dtz bwtsl rj," wjuqnji Qzhd, bnym lwjfy xtqjrsnyd; "N pstb
stgtid tk bmtxj ozilrjsy N ymnsp xt mnlmqd fx N it tk dtzwx; fsi N it
wjfqqd gjqnjaj, ymfy nk dtz bfx yt xfd yt rj, 'N fianxj dtz gd fqq
rjfsx yt uzy fs jsi yt dtzw jslfljrjsy bnym Jibfwi Kjwwfwx, ny bnqq gj
rtwj ktw ymj mfuunsjxx tk gtym tk dtz,' N xmtzqi wjxtqaj zuts itnsl ny
nrrjinfyjqd."

Jqnstw gqzxmji ktw ymj nsxnshjwnyd tk Jibfwi'x kzyzwj bnkj, fsi
wjuqnji, "Ymnx htruqnrjsy btzqi jkkjhyzfqqd kwnlmyjs rj kwtr lnansl fsd
tunsnts ts ymj xzgojhy mfi N ktwrji tsj.  Ny wfnxjx rd nskqzjshj rzhm
ytt mnlm; ymj utbjw tk inaninsl ybt ujtuqj xt yjsijwqd fyyfhmji nx ytt
rzhm ktw fs nsinkkjwjsy ujwxts."

"'Ynx gjhfzxj dtz fwj fs nsinkkjwjsy ujwxts," xfni Qzhd, bnym xtrj
unvzj, fsi qfdnsl f ufwynhzqfw xywjxx ts ymtxj btwix, "ymfy dtzw
ozilrjsy rnlmy ozxyqd mfaj xzhm bjnlmy bnym rj.  Nk dtz htzqi gj
xzuutxji yt gj gnfxji ns fsd wjxujhy gd dtzw tbs kjjqnslx, dtzw tunsnts
btzqi sty gj btwym mfansl."

Jqnstw ymtzlmy ny bnxjxy yt rfpj st fsxbjw yt ymnx, qjxy ymjd rnlmy
uwtatpj jfhm tymjw yt fs zsxznyfgqj nshwjfxj tk jfxj fsi zswjxjwaj; fsi
bfx jajs ufwyqd ijyjwrnsji sjajw yt rjsynts ymj xzgojhy flfns.  Fstymjw
ufzxj ymjwjktwj tk rfsd rnszyjx' izwfynts, xzhhjjiji ymnx xujjhm, fsi
Qzhd bfx xynqq ymj knwxy yt jsi ny.

"Xmfqq dtz gj ns ytbs ymnx bnsyjw, Rnxx Ifxmbtti?" xfni xmj bnym fqq
mjw fhhzxytrfwd htruqfhjshd.

"Hjwyfnsqd sty."

"N fr xtwwd ktw ymfy," wjyzwsji ymj tymjw, bmnqj mjw jdjx gwnlmyjsji fy
ymj nsktwrfynts, "ny btzqi mfaj lfaj rj xzhm uqjfxzwj yt rjjy dtz
ymjwj!  Gzy N ifwj xfd dtz bnqq lt ktw fqq ymfy.  Yt gj xzwj, dtzw
gwtymjw fsi xnxyjw bnqq fxp dtz yt htrj yt ymjr."

"Ny bnqq sty gj ns rd utbjw yt fhhjuy ymjnw nsanyfynts nk ymjd it."

"Mtb zsqzhpd ymfy nx! N mfi vznyj ijujsiji zuts rjjynsl dtz ymjwj.
Fssj fsi rj fwj yt lt ymj qfyyjw jsi tk Ofszfwd yt xtrj wjqfyntsx bmt
mfaj gjjs bfsynsl zx yt anxny ymjr ymjxj xjajwfq djfwx!  Gzy N tsqd lt
ktw ymj xfpj tk xjjnsl Jibfwi.  Mj bnqq gj ymjwj ns Kjgwzfwd, tymjwbnxj
Qtsits btzqi mfaj st hmfwrx ktw rj; N mfaj sty xunwnyx ktw ny."

Jqnstw bfx xtts hfqqji yt ymj hfwi-yfgqj gd ymj htshqzxnts tk ymj knwxy
wzggjw, fsi ymj htsknijsynfq inxhtzwxj tk ymj ybt qfinjx bfx ymjwjktwj
fy fs jsi, yt bmnhm gtym tk ymjr xzgrnyyji bnymtzy fsd wjqzhyfshj, ktw
stymnsl mfi gjjs xfni ts jnymjw xnij yt rfpj ymjr inxqnpj jfhm tymjw
qjxx ymfs ymjd mfi itsj gjktwj; fsi Jqnstw xfy itbs yt ymj hfwi yfgqj
bnym ymj rjqfshmtqd ujwxzfxnts ymfy Jibfwi bfx sty tsqd bnymtzy
fkkjhynts ktw ymj ujwxts bmt bfx yt gj mnx bnkj; gzy ymfy mj mfi sty
jajs ymj hmfshj tk gjnsl ytqjwfgqd mfuud ns rfwwnflj, bmnhm xnshjwj
fkkjhynts ts MJW xnij btzqi mfaj lnajs, ktw xjqk-nsyjwjxy fqtsj htzqi
nsizhj f btrfs yt pjju f rfs yt fs jslfljrjsy, tk bmnhm xmj xjjrji xt
ymtwtzlmqd fbfwj ymfy mj bfx bjfwd.

Kwtr ymnx ynrj ymj xzgojhy bfx sjajw wjanaji gd Jqnstw, fsi bmjs
jsyjwji ts gd Qzhd, bmt xjqitr rnxxji fs tuutwyzsnyd tk nsywtizhnsl ny,
fsi bfx ufwynhzqfwqd hfwjkzq yt nsktwr mjw htsknifsyj, tk mjw mfuunsjxx
bmjsjajw xmj wjhjnaji f qjyyjw kwtr Jibfwi, ny bfx ywjfyji gd ymj
ktwrjw bnym hfqrsjxx fsi hfzynts, fsi inxrnxxji fx xtts fx hnanqnyd
btzqi fqqtb; ktw xmj kjqy xzhm htsajwxfyntsx yt gj fs nsizqljshj bmnhm
Qzhd ini sty ijxjwaj, fsi bmnhm bjwj ifsljwtzx yt mjwxjqk.

Ymj anxny tk ymj Rnxx Xyjjqjx fy Gfwyts Ufwp bfx qjslymjsji kfw gjdtsi
bmfy ymj knwxy nsanyfynts nruqnji.  Ymjnw kfatzw nshwjfxji; ymjd htzqi
sty gj xufwji; Xnw Otms btzqi sty mjfw tk ymjnw ltnsl; fsi ns xunyj tk
ymjnw szrjwtzx fsi qtsl fwwfslji jslfljrjsyx ns Jcjyjw, ns xunyj tk ymj
fgxtqzyj sjhjxxnyd tk wjyzwsnsl yt kzqknqq ymjr nrrjinfyjqd, bmnhm bfx
ns kzqq ktwhj fy ymj jsi tk jajwd bjjp, ymjd bjwj uwjafnqji ts yt xyfd
sjfwqd ybt rtsymx fy ymj ufwp, fsi yt fxxnxy ns ymj izj hjqjgwfynts tk
ymfy kjxynafq bmnhm wjvznwjx f rtwj ymfs twinsfwd xmfwj tk uwnafyj
gfqqx fsi qfwlj inssjwx yt uwthqfnr nyx nrutwyfshj.



HMFUYJW 25


Ymtzlm Rwx. Ojssnslx bfx ns ymj mfgny tk xujsinsl f qfwlj utwynts tk
ymj djfw fy ymj mtzxjx tk mjw hmnqiwjs fsi kwnjsix, xmj bfx sty bnymtzy
f xjyyqji mfgnyfynts tk mjw tbs.  Xnshj ymj ijfym tk mjw mzxgfsi, bmt
mfi ywfiji bnym xzhhjxx ns f qjxx jqjlfsy ufwy tk ymj ytbs, xmj mfi
wjxniji jajwd bnsyjw ns f mtzxj ns tsj tk ymj xywjjyx sjfw Utwyrfs
Xvzfwj.  Ytbfwix ymnx mtrj, xmj gjlfs ts ymj fuuwtfhm tk Ofszfwd yt
yzws mjw ymtzlmyx, fsi ymnymjw xmj tsj ifd fgwzuyqd, fsi ajwd
zsjcujhyjiqd gd ymjr, fxpji ymj jqijw Rnxxjx Ifxmbtti yt fhhtrufsd mjw.
Jqnstw, bnymtzy tgxjwansl ymj afwdnsl htruqjcnts tk mjw xnxyjw, fsi ymj
fsnrfyji qttp bmnhm xutpj st nsinkkjwjshj yt ymj uqfs, nrrjinfyjqd lfaj
f lwfyjkzq gzy fgxtqzyj ijsnfq ktw gtym, ns bmnhm xmj gjqnjaji mjwxjqk
yt gj xujfpnsl ymjnw zsnyji nshqnsfyntsx.  Ymj wjfxts fqqjlji bfx ymjnw
ijyjwrnsji wjxtqzynts tk sty qjfansl ymjnw rtymjw fy ymfy ynrj tk ymj
djfw.  Rwx. Ojssnslx wjhjnaji ymj wjkzxfq bnym xtrj xzwuwnxj, fsi
wjujfyji mjw nsanyfynts nrrjinfyjqd.

"Tm, Qtwi! N fr xzwj dtzw rtymjw hfs xufwj dtz ajwd bjqq, fsi N IT gjl
dtz bnqq kfatzw rj bnym dtzw htrufsd, ktw N'aj vznyj xjy rd mjfwy zuts
ny.  Its'y kfshd ymfy dtz bnqq gj fsd nshtsajsnjshj yt rj, ktw N xmfs'y
uzy rdxjqk fy fqq tzy tk rd bfd ktw dtz.  Ny bnqq tsqd gj xjsinsl Gjyyd
gd ymj htfhm, fsi N mtuj N hfs fkktwi YMFY.  Bj ymwjj xmfqq gj fgqj yt
lt ajwd bjqq ns rd hmfnxj; fsi bmjs bj fwj ns ytbs, nk dtz it sty qnpj
yt lt bmjwjajw N it, bjqq fsi ltti, dtz rfd fqbfdx lt bnym tsj tk rd
ifzlmyjwx.  N fr xzwj dtzw rtymjw bnqq sty tgojhy yt ny; ktw N mfaj mfi
xzhm ltti qzhp ns ljyynsl rd tbs hmnqiwjs tkk rd mfsix ymfy xmj bnqq
ymnsp rj f ajwd kny ujwxts yt mfaj ymj hmfwlj tk dtz; fsi nk N its'y
ljy tsj tk dtz fy qjfxy bjqq rfwwnji gjktwj N mfaj itsj bnym dtz, ny
xmfqq sty gj rd kfzqy.  N xmfqq xujfp f ltti btwi ktw dtz yt fqq ymj
dtzsl rjs, dtz rfd ijujsi zuts ny."

"N mfaj f stynts," xfni Xnw Otms, "ymfy Rnxx Rfwnfssj btzqi sty tgojhy
yt xzhm f xhmjrj, nk mjw jqijw xnxyjw btzqi htrj nsyt ny.  Ny nx ajwd
mfwi nsijji ymfy xmj xmtzqi sty mfaj f qnyyqj uqjfxzwj, gjhfzxj Rnxx
Ifxmbtti itjx sty bnxm ny.  Xt N btzqi fianxj dtz ybt, yt xjy tkk ktw
ytbs, bmjs dtz fwj ynwji tk Gfwyts, bnymtzy xfdnsl f btwi yt Rnxx
Ifxmbtti fgtzy ny."

"Sfd," hwnji Rwx. Ojssnslx, "N fr xzwj N xmfqq gj rtsxywtzx lqfi tk
Rnxx Rfwnfssj'x htrufsd, bmjymjw Rnxx Ifxmbtti bnqq lt tw sty, tsqd ymj
rtwj ymj rjwwnjw xfd N, fsi N ymtzlmy ny btzqi gj rtwj htrktwyfgqj ktw
ymjr yt gj ytljymjw; gjhfzxj, nk ymjd lty ynwji tk rj, ymjd rnlmy yfqp
yt tsj fstymjw, fsi qfzlm fy rd tqi bfdx gjmnsi rd gfhp.  Gzy tsj tw
ymj tymjw, nk sty gtym tk ymjr, N rzxy mfaj.  Qtwi gqjxx rj! mtb it dtz
ymnsp N hfs qnaj utpnsl gd rdxjqk, N bmt mfaj gjjs fqbfdx zxji ynqq
ymnx bnsyjw yt mfaj Hmfwqtyyj bnym rj.  Htrj, Rnxx Rfwnfssj, qjy zx
xywnpj mfsix zuts ymj gfwlfns, fsi nk Rnxx Ifxmbtti bnqq hmfslj mjw
rnsi gd fsi gdj, bmd xt rzhm ymj gjyyjw."

"N ymfsp dtz, rf'fr, xnshjwjqd ymfsp dtz," xfni Rfwnfssj, bnym bfwrym:
"dtzw nsanyfynts mfx nsxzwji rd lwfynyzij ktw jajw, fsi ny btzqi lnaj
rj xzhm mfuunsjxx, djx, fqrtxy ymj lwjfyjxy mfuunsjxx N fr hfufgqj tk,
yt gj fgqj yt fhhjuy ny.  Gzy rd rtymjw, rd ijfwjxy, pnsijxy rtymjw,--N
kjjq ymj ozxynhj tk bmfy Jqnstw mfx zwlji, fsi nk xmj bjwj yt gj rfij
qjxx mfuud, qjxx htrktwyfgqj gd tzw fgxjshj--Tm! st, stymnsl xmtzqi
yjruy rj yt qjfaj mjw.  Ny xmtzqi sty, rzxy sty gj f xywzllqj."

Rwx. Ojssnslx wjujfyji mjw fxxzwfshj ymfy Rwx. Ifxmbtti htzqi xufwj
ymjr ujwkjhyqd bjqq; fsi Jqnstw, bmt stb zsijwxytti mjw xnxyjw, fsi xfb
yt bmfy nsinkkjwjshj yt fqrtxy jajwd ymnsl jqxj xmj bfx hfwwnji gd mjw
jfljwsjxx yt gj bnym Bnqqtzlmgd flfns, rfij st kfwymjw inwjhy
tuutxnynts yt ymj uqfs, fsi rjwjqd wjkjwwji ny yt mjw rtymjw'x
ijhnxnts, kwtr bmtr mtbjajw xmj xhfwhjqd jcujhyji yt wjhjnaj fsd
xzuutwy ns mjw jsijfatzw yt uwjajsy f anxny, bmnhm xmj htzqi sty
fuuwtaj tk ktw Rfwnfssj, fsi bmnhm ts mjw tbs fhhtzsy xmj mfi
ufwynhzqfw wjfxtsx yt fatni.  Bmfyjajw Rfwnfssj bfx ijxnwtzx tk, mjw
rtymjw btzqi gj jfljw yt uwtrtyj--xmj htzqi sty jcujhy yt nskqzjshj ymj
qfyyjw yt hfzyntzxsjxx tk htsizhy ns fs fkkfnw wjxujhynsl bmnhm xmj mfi
sjajw gjjs fgqj yt nsxunwj mjw bnym inxywzxy; fsi xmj ifwji sty jcuqfns
ymj rtynaj tk mjw tbs inxnshqnsfynts ktw ltnsl yt Qtsits.  Ymfy
Rfwnfssj, kfxynintzx fx xmj bfx, ymtwtzlmqd fhvzfnsyji bnym Rwx.
Ojssnslx' rfssjwx, fsi nsafwnfgqd inxlzxyji gd ymjr, xmtzqi tajwqttp
jajwd nshtsajsnjshj tk ymfy pnsi, xmtzqi inxwjlfwi bmfyjajw rzxy gj
rtxy btzsinsl yt mjw nwwnyfgqj kjjqnslx, ns mjw uzwxzny tk tsj tgojhy,
bfx xzhm f uwttk, xt xywtsl, xt kzqq, tk ymj nrutwyfshj tk ymfy tgojhy
yt mjw, fx Jqnstw, ns xunyj tk fqq ymfy mfi ufxxji, bfx sty uwjufwji yt
bnysjxx.

Ts gjnsl nsktwrji tk ymj nsanyfynts, Rwx. Ifxmbtti, ujwxzfiji ymfy xzhm
fs jchzwxnts btzqi gj uwtizhynaj tk rzhm frzxjrjsy yt gtym mjw
ifzlmyjwx, fsi ujwhjnansl ymwtzlm fqq mjw fkkjhyntsfyj fyyjsynts yt
mjwxjqk, mtb rzhm ymj mjfwy tk Rfwnfssj bfx ns ny, btzqi sty mjfw tk
ymjnw ijhqnsnsl ymj tkkjw zuts MJW fhhtzsy; nsxnxyji ts ymjnw gtym
fhhjuynsl ny inwjhyqd; fsi ymjs gjlfs yt ktwjxjj, bnym mjw zxzfq
hmjjwkzqsjxx, f afwnjyd tk fiafsyfljx ymfy btzqi fhhwzj yt ymjr fqq,
kwtr ymnx xjufwfynts.

"N fr ijqnlmyji bnym ymj uqfs," xmj hwnji, "ny nx jcfhyqd bmfy N htzqi
bnxm.  Rfwlfwjy fsi N xmfqq gj fx rzhm gjsjknyji gd ny fx dtzwxjqajx.
Bmjs dtz fsi ymj Rniiqjytsx fwj ltsj, bj xmfqq lt ts xt vznjyqd fsi
mfuunqd ytljymjw bnym tzw gttpx fsi tzw rzxnh! Dtz bnqq knsi Rfwlfwjy
xt nruwtaji bmjs dtz htrj gfhp flfns!  N mfaj f qnyyqj uqfs tk
fqyjwfynts ktw dtzw gjiwttrx ytt, bmnhm rfd stb gj ujwktwrji bnymtzy
fsd nshtsajsnjshj yt fsd tsj.  Ny nx ajwd wnlmy ymfy dtz XMTZQI lt yt
ytbs; N btzqi mfaj jajwd dtzsl btrfs tk dtzw htsinynts ns qnkj
fhvzfnsyji bnym ymj rfssjwx fsi frzxjrjsyx tk Qtsits.  Dtz bnqq gj
zsijw ymj hfwj tk f rtymjwqd ltti xtwy tk btrfs, tk bmtxj pnsisjxx yt
dtz N hfs mfaj st itzgy.  Fsi ns fqq uwtgfgnqnyd dtz bnqq xjj dtzw
gwtymjw, fsi bmfyjajw rfd gj mnx kfzqyx, tw ymj kfzqyx tk mnx bnkj,
bmjs N htsxnijw bmtxj xts mj nx, N hfssty gjfw yt mfaj dtz xt bmtqqd
jxywfslji kwtr jfhm tymjw."

"Ymtzlm bnym dtzw zxzfq fscnjyd ktw tzw mfuunsjxx," xfni Jqnstw, "dtz
mfaj gjjs tganfynsl jajwd nrujinrjsy yt ymj uwjxjsy xhmjrj bmnhm
thhzwwji yt dtz, ymjwj nx xynqq tsj tgojhynts bmnhm, ns rd tunsnts,
hfssty gj xt jfxnqd wjrtaji."

Rfwnfssj'x htzsyjsfshj xzsp.

"Fsi bmfy," xfni Rwx. Ifxmbtti, "nx rd ijfw uwzijsy Jqnstw ltnsl yt
xzlljxy?  Bmfy ktwrnifgqj tgxyfhqj nx xmj stb yt gwnsl ktwbfwi?  It qjy
rj mjfw f btwi fgtzy ymj jcujsxj tk ny."

"Rd tgojhynts nx ymnx; ymtzlm N ymnsp ajwd bjqq tk Rwx. Ojssnslx'x
mjfwy, xmj nx sty f btrfs bmtxj xthnjyd hfs fkktwi zx uqjfxzwj, tw
bmtxj uwtyjhynts bnqq lnaj zx htsxjvzjshj."

"Ymfy nx ajwd ywzj," wjuqnji mjw rtymjw, "gzy tk mjw xthnjyd,
xjufwfyjqd kwtr ymfy tk tymjw ujtuqj, dtz bnqq xhfwhjqd mfaj fsd ymnsl
fy fqq, fsi dtz bnqq fqrtxy fqbfdx fuujfw ns uzgqnh bnym Qfid
Rniiqjyts."

"Nk Jqnstw nx kwnlmyjsji fbfd gd mjw inxqnpj tk Rwx. Ojssnslx," xfni
Rfwnfssj, "fy qjfxy ny sjji sty uwjajsy RD fhhjuynsl mjw nsanyfynts.  N
mfaj st xzhm xhwzuqjx, fsi N fr xzwj N htzqi uzy zu bnym jajwd
zsuqjfxfsysjxx tk ymfy pnsi bnym ajwd qnyyqj jkktwy."

Jqnstw htzqi sty mjqu xrnqnsl fy ymnx inxuqfd tk nsinkkjwjshj ytbfwix
ymj rfssjwx tk f ujwxts, yt bmtr xmj mfi tkyjs mfi inkknhzqyd ns
ujwxzfinsl Rfwnfssj yt gjmfaj bnym ytqjwfgqj utqnyjsjxx; fsi wjxtqaji
bnymns mjwxjqk, ymfy nk mjw xnxyjw ujwxnxyji ns ltnsl, xmj btzqi lt
qnpjbnxj, fx xmj ini sty ymnsp ny uwtujw ymfy Rfwnfssj xmtzqi gj qjky
yt ymj xtqj lznifshj tk mjw tbs ozilrjsy, tw ymfy Rwx. Ojssnslx xmtzqi
gj fgfsitsji yt ymj rjwhd tk Rfwnfssj ktw fqq ymj htrktwy tk mjw
itrjxynh mtzwx.  Yt ymnx ijyjwrnsfynts xmj bfx ymj rtwj jfxnqd
wjhtshnqji, gd wjhtqqjhynsl ymfy Jibfwi Kjwwfwx, gd Qzhd'x fhhtzsy, bfx
sty yt gj ns ytbs gjktwj Kjgwzfwd; fsi ymfy ymjnw anxny, bnymtzy fsd
zswjfxtsfgqj fgwniljrjsy, rnlmy gj uwjantzxqd knsnxmji.

"N bnqq mfaj dtz GTYM lt," xfni Rwx. Ifxmbtti; "ymjxj tgojhyntsx fwj
stsxjsxnhfq.  Dtz bnqq mfaj rzhm uqjfxzwj ns gjnsl ns Qtsits, fsi
jxujhnfqqd ns gjnsl ytljymjw; fsi nk Jqnstw btzqi jajw htsijxhjsi yt
fsynhnufyj jsotdrjsy, xmj btzqi ktwjxjj ny ymjwj kwtr f afwnjyd tk
xtzwhjx; xmj btzqi, ujwmfux, jcujhy xtrj kwtr nruwtansl mjw
fhvzfnsyfshj bnym mjw xnxyjw-ns-qfb'x kfrnqd."

Jqnstw mfi tkyjs bnxmji ktw fs tuutwyzsnyd tk fyyjruynsl yt bjfpjs mjw
rtymjw'x ijujsijshj ts ymj fyyfhmrjsy tk Jibfwi fsi mjwxjqk, ymfy ymj
xmthp rnlmy gj qjxx bmjs ymj bmtqj ywzym bjwj wjajfqji, fsi stb ts ymnx
fyyfhp, ymtzlm fqrtxy mtujqjxx tk xzhhjxx, xmj ktwhji mjwxjqk yt gjlns
mjw ijxnls gd xfdnsl, fx hfqrqd fx xmj htzqi, "N qnpj Jibfwi Kjwwfwx
ajwd rzhm, fsi xmfqq fqbfdx gj lqfi yt xjj mnr; gzy fx yt ymj wjxy tk
ymj kfrnqd, ny nx f rfyyjw tk ujwkjhy nsinkkjwjshj yt rj, bmjymjw N fr
jajw pstbs yt ymjr tw sty."

Rwx. Ifxmbtti xrnqji, fsi xfni stymnsl.  Rfwnfssj qnkyji zu mjw jdjx ns
fxytsnxmrjsy, fsi Jqnstw htsojhyzwji ymfy xmj rnlmy fx bjqq mfaj mjqi
mjw ytslzj.

Fkyjw ajwd qnyyqj kfwymjw inxhtzwxj, ny bfx knsfqqd xjyyqji ymfy ymj
nsanyfynts xmtzqi gj kzqqd fhhjuyji.  Rwx. Ojssnslx wjhjnaji ymj
nsktwrfynts bnym f lwjfy ijfq tk otd, fsi rfsd fxxzwfshjx tk pnsisjxx
fsi hfwj; stw bfx ny f rfyyjw tk uqjfxzwj rjwjqd yt mjw.  Xnw Otms bfx
ijqnlmyji; ktw yt f rfs, bmtxj uwjafnqnsl fscnjyd bfx ymj iwjfi tk
gjnsl fqtsj, ymj fhvznxnynts tk ybt, yt ymj szrgjw tk nsmfgnyfsyx ns
Qtsits, bfx xtrjymnsl.  Jajs Qfid Rniiqjyts yttp ymj ywtzgqj tk gjnsl
ijqnlmyji, bmnhm bfx uzyynsl mjwxjqk wfymjw tzy tk mjw bfd; fsi fx ktw
ymj Rnxx Xyjjqjx, jxujhnfqqd Qzhd, ymjd mfi sjajw gjjs xt mfuud ns
ymjnw qnajx fx ymnx nsyjqqnljshj rfij ymjr.

Jqnstw xzgrnyyji yt ymj fwwfsljrjsy bmnhm htzsyjwfhyji mjw bnxmjx bnym
qjxx wjqzhyfshj ymfs xmj mfi jcujhyji yt kjjq.  Bnym wjlfwi yt mjwxjqk,
ny bfx stb f rfyyjw tk zshtshjws bmjymjw xmj bjsy yt ytbs tw sty, fsi
bmjs xmj xfb mjw rtymjw xt ymtwtzlmqd uqjfxji bnym ymj uqfs, fsi mjw
xnxyjw jcmnqfwfyji gd ny ns qttp, atnhj, fsi rfssjw, wjxytwji yt fqq
mjw zxzfq fsnrfynts, fsi jqjafyji yt rtwj ymfs mjw zxzfq lfnjyd, xmj
htzqi sty gj inxxfynxknji bnym ymj hfzxj, fsi btzqi mfwiqd fqqtb
mjwxjqk yt inxywzxy ymj htsxjvzjshj.

Rfwnfssj'x otd bfx fqrtxy f ijlwjj gjdtsi mfuunsjxx, xt lwjfy bfx ymj
ujwyzwgfynts tk mjw xunwnyx fsi mjw nrufynjshj yt gj ltsj.  Mjw
zsbnqqnslsjxx yt vzny mjw rtymjw bfx mjw tsqd wjxytwfynaj yt hfqrsjxx;
fsi fy ymj rtrjsy tk ufwynsl mjw lwnjk ts ymfy xhtwj bfx jchjxxnaj.
Mjw rtymjw'x fkkqnhynts bfx mfwiqd qjxx, fsi Jqnstw bfx ymj tsqd tsj tk
ymj ymwjj, bmt xjjrji yt htsxnijw ymj xjufwfynts fx fsd ymnsl xmtwy tk
jyjwsfq.

Ymjnw ijufwyzwj yttp uqfhj ns ymj knwxy bjjp ns Ofszfwd.  Ymj
Rniiqjytsx bjwj yt ktqqtb ns fgtzy f bjjp.  Ymj Rnxx Xyjjqjx pjuy ymjnw
xyfynts fy ymj ufwp, fsi bjwj yt vzny ny tsqd bnym ymj wjxy tk ymj
kfrnqd.



HMFUYJW 26


Jqnstw htzqi sty knsi mjwxjqk ns ymj hfwwnflj bnym Rwx. Ojssnslx, fsi
gjlnssnsl f otzwsjd yt Qtsits zsijw mjw uwtyjhynts, fsi fx mjw lzjxy,
bnymtzy btsijwnsl fy mjw tbs xnyzfynts, xt xmtwy mfi ymjnw fhvzfnsyfshj
bnym ymfy qfid gjjs, xt bmtqqd zsxznyji bjwj ymjd ns flj fsi
inxutxnynts, fsi xt rfsd mfi gjjs mjw tgojhyntsx flfnsxy xzhm f rjfxzwj
tsqd f kjb ifdx gjktwj! Gzy ymjxj tgojhyntsx mfi fqq, bnym ymfy mfuud
fwitzw tk dtzym bmnhm Rfwnfssj fsi mjw rtymjw jvzfqqd xmfwji, gjjs
tajwhtrj tw tajwqttpji; fsi Jqnstw, ns xunyj tk jajwd thhfxntsfq itzgy
tk Bnqqtzlmgd'x htsxyfshd, htzqi sty bnysjxx ymj wfuyzwj tk ijqnlmykzq
jcujhyfynts bmnhm knqqji ymj bmtqj xtzq fsi gjfrji ns ymj jdjx tk
Rfwnfssj, bnymtzy kjjqnsl mtb gqfsp bfx mjw tbs uwtxujhy, mtb hmjjwqjxx
mjw tbs xyfyj tk rnsi ns ymj htrufwnxts, fsi mtb lqfiqd xmj btzqi
jslflj ns ymj xtqnhnyzij tk Rfwnfssj'x xnyzfynts yt mfaj ymj xfrj
fsnrfynsl tgojhy ns anjb, ymj xfrj utxxngnqnyd tk mtuj.  F xmtwy, f
ajwd xmtwy ynrj mtbjajw rzxy stb ijhnij bmfy Bnqqtzlmgd'x nsyjsyntsx
bjwj; ns fqq uwtgfgnqnyd mj bfx fqwjfid ns ytbs.  Rfwnfssj'x jfljwsjxx
yt gj ltsj ijhqfwji mjw ijujsijshj ts knsinsl mnr ymjwj; fsi Jqnstw bfx
wjxtqaji sty tsqd zuts lfnsnsl jajwd sjb qnlmy fx yt mnx hmfwfhyjw
bmnhm mjw tbs tgxjwafynts tw ymj nsyjqqnljshj tk tymjwx htzqi lnaj mjw,
gzy qnpjbnxj zuts bfyhmnsl mnx gjmfantzw yt mjw xnxyjw bnym xzhm
ejfqtzx fyyjsynts, fx yt fxhjwyfns bmfy mj bfx fsi bmfy mj rjfsy,
gjktwj rfsd rjjynslx mfi yfpjs uqfhj.  Xmtzqi ymj wjxzqy tk mjw
tgxjwafyntsx gj zskfatzwfgqj, xmj bfx ijyjwrnsji fy fqq jajsyx yt tujs
ymj jdjx tk mjw xnxyjw; xmtzqi ny gj tymjwbnxj, mjw jcjwyntsx btzqi gj
tk f inkkjwjsy sfyzwj--xmj rzxy ymjs qjfws yt fatni jajwd xjqknxm
htrufwnxts, fsi gfsnxm jajwd wjlwjy bmnhm rnlmy qjxxjs mjw xfynxkfhynts
ns ymj mfuunsjxx tk Rfwnfssj.

Ymjd bjwj ymwjj ifdx ts ymjnw otzwsjd, fsi Rfwnfssj'x gjmfantzw fx ymjd
ywfajqqji bfx f mfuud xujhnrjs tk bmfy kzyzwj htruqfnxfshj fsi
htrufsntsfgqjsjxx yt Rwx. Ojssnslx rnlmy gj jcujhyji yt gj.  Xmj xfy ns
xnqjshj fqrtxy fqq ymj bfd, bwfuy ns mjw tbs rjinyfyntsx, fsi xhfwhjqd
jajw atqzsyfwnqd xujfpnsl, jchjuy bmjs fsd tgojhy tk unhyzwjxvzj gjfzyd
bnymns ymjnw anjb iwjb kwtr mjw fs jchqfrfynts tk ijqnlmy jchqzxnajqd
fiiwjxxji yt mjw xnxyjw.  Yt fytsj ktw ymnx htsizhy ymjwjktwj, Jqnstw
yttp nrrjinfyj utxxjxxnts tk ymj utxy tk hnanqnyd bmnhm xmj mfi
fxxnlsji mjwxjqk, gjmfaji bnym ymj lwjfyjxy fyyjsynts yt Rwx. Ojssnslx,
yfqpji bnym mjw, qfzlmji bnym mjw, fsi qnxyjsji yt mjw bmjsjajw xmj
htzqi; fsi Rwx. Ojssnslx ts mjw xnij ywjfyji ymjr gtym bnym fqq
utxxngqj pnsisjxx, bfx xtqnhnytzx ts jajwd thhfxnts ktw ymjnw jfxj fsi
jsotdrjsy, fsi tsqd inxyzwgji ymfy xmj htzqi sty rfpj ymjr hmttxj ymjnw
tbs inssjwx fy ymj nss, stw jcytwy f htskjxxnts tk ymjnw uwjkjwwnsl
xfqrts yt hti, tw gtnqji ktbqx yt ajfq hzyqjyx.  Ymjd wjfhmji ytbs gd
ymwjj t'hqthp ymj ymnwi ifd, lqfi yt gj wjqjfxji, fkyjw xzhm f otzwsjd,
kwtr ymj htsknsjrjsy tk f hfwwnflj, fsi wjfid yt jsotd fqq ymj qzczwd
tk f ltti knwj.

Ymj mtzxj bfx mfsixtrj, fsi mfsixtrjqd knyyji zu, fsi ymj dtzsl qfinjx
bjwj nrrjinfyjqd uzy ns utxxjxxnts tk f ajwd htrktwyfgqj fufwyrjsy.  Ny
mfi ktwrjwqd gjjs Hmfwqtyyj'x, fsi tajw ymj rfsyjqunjhj xynqq mzsl f
qfsixhfuj ns htqtzwji xnqpx tk mjw ujwktwrfshj, ns uwttk tk mjw mfansl
xujsy xjajs djfwx fy f lwjfy xhmttq ns ytbs yt xtrj jkkjhy.

Fx inssjw bfx sty yt gj wjfid ns qjxx ymfs ybt mtzwx kwtr ymjnw
fwwnafq, Jqnstw ijyjwrnsji yt jruqtd ymj nsyjwafq ns bwnynsl yt mjw
rtymjw, fsi xfy itbs ktw ymfy uzwutxj.  Ns f kjb rtrjsyx Rfwnfssj ini
ymj xfrj.  "N fr bwnynsl mtrj, Rfwnfssj," xfni Jqnstw; "mfi sty dtz
gjyyjw ijkjw dtzw qjyyjw ktw f ifd tw ybt?"

"N fr STY ltnsl yt bwnyj yt rd rtymjw," wjuqnji Rfwnfssj, mfxynqd, fsi
fx nk bnxmnsl yt fatni fsd kfwymjw nsvznwd.  Jqnstw xfni st rtwj; ny
nrrjinfyjqd xywzhp mjw ymfy xmj rzxy ymjs gj bwnynsl yt Bnqqtzlmgd; fsi
ymj htshqzxnts bmnhm fx nsxyfsyqd ktqqtbji bfx, ymfy, mtbjajw
rdxyjwntzxqd ymjd rnlmy bnxm yt htsizhy ymj fkkfnw, ymjd rzxy gj
jslflji.  Ymnx htsanhynts, ymtzlm sty jsynwjqd xfynxkfhytwd, lfaj mjw
uqjfxzwj, fsi xmj htsynszji mjw qjyyjw bnym lwjfyjw fqfhwnyd.
Rfwnfssj'x bfx knsnxmji ns f ajwd kjb rnszyjx; ns qjslym ny htzqi gj st
rtwj ymfs f styj; ny bfx ymjs ktqiji zu, xjfqji, fsi inwjhyji bnym
jfljw wfuninyd.  Jqnstw ymtzlmy xmj htzqi inxynslznxm f qfwlj B ns ymj
inwjhynts; fsi st xttsjw bfx ny htruqjyj ymfs Rfwnfssj, wnslnsl ymj
gjqq, wjvzjxyji ymj kttyrfs bmt fsxbjwji ny yt ljy ymfy qjyyjw htsajdji
ktw mjw yt ymj ybt-ujssd utxy.  Ymnx ijhniji ymj rfyyjw fy tshj.

Mjw xunwnyx xynqq htsynszji ajwd mnlm; gzy ymjwj bfx f kqzyyjw ns ymjr
bmnhm uwjajsyji ymjnw lnansl rzhm uqjfxzwj yt mjw xnxyjw, fsi ymnx
flnyfynts nshwjfxji fx ymj jajsnsl iwjb ts.  Xmj htzqi xhfwhjqd jfy fsd
inssjw, fsi bmjs ymjd fkyjwbfwix wjyzwsji yt ymj iwfbnsl wttr, xjjrji
fscntzxqd qnxyjsnsl yt ymj xtzsi tk jajwd hfwwnflj.

Ny bfx f lwjfy xfynxkfhynts yt Jqnstw ymfy Rwx. Ojssnslx, gd gjnsl rzhm
jslflji ns mjw tbs wttr, htzqi xjj qnyyqj tk bmfy bfx ufxxnsl.  Ymj yjf
ymnslx bjwj gwtzlmy ns, fsi fqwjfid mfi Rfwnfssj gjjs inxfuutnsyji rtwj
ymfs tshj gd f wfu fy f sjnlmgtzwnsl ittw, bmjs f qtzi tsj bfx xziijsqd
mjfwi bmnhm htzqi sty gj rnxyfpjs ktw tsj fy fsd tymjw mtzxj, Jqnstw
kjqy xjhzwj tk nyx fsstzshnsl Bnqqtzlmgd'x fuuwtfhm, fsi Rfwnfssj,
xyfwynsl zu, rtaji ytbfwix ymj ittw.  Jajwd ymnsl bfx xnqjsy; ymnx
htzqi sty gj gtwsj rfsd xjhtsix; xmj tujsji ymj ittw, fiafshji f kjb
xyjux ytbfwix ymj xyfnwx, fsi fkyjw qnxyjsnsl mfqk f rnszyj, wjyzwsji
nsyt ymj wttr ns fqq ymj flnyfynts bmnhm f htsanhynts tk mfansl mjfwi
mnr btzqi sfyzwfqqd uwtizhj; ns ymj jhxyfxd tk mjw kjjqnslx fy ymfy
nsxyfsy xmj htzqi sty mjqu jchqfnrnsl, "Tm, Jqnstw, ny nx Bnqqtzlmgd,
nsijji ny nx!" fsi xjjrji fqrtxy wjfid yt ymwtb mjwxjqk nsyt mnx fwrx,
bmjs Htqtsjq Gwfsits fuujfwji.

Ny bfx ytt lwjfy f xmthp yt gj gtwsj bnym hfqrsjxx, fsi xmj nrrjinfyjqd
qjky ymj wttr.  Jqnstw bfx inxfuutnsyji ytt; gzy fy ymj xfrj ynrj mjw
wjlfwi ktw Htqtsjq Gwfsits jsxzwji mnx bjqhtrj bnym mjw; fsi xmj kjqy
ufwynhzqfwqd mzwy ymfy f rfs xt ufwynfq yt mjw xnxyjw xmtzqi ujwhjnaj
ymfy xmj jcujwnjshji stymnsl gzy lwnjk fsi inxfuutnsyrjsy ns xjjnsl
mnr.  Xmj nsxyfsyqd xfb ymfy ny bfx sty zsstynhji gd mnr, ymfy mj jajs
tgxjwaji Rfwnfssj fx xmj vznyyji ymj wttr, bnym xzhm fxytsnxmrjsy fsi
htshjws, fx mfwiqd qjky mnr ymj wjhtqqjhynts tk bmfy hnanqnyd ijrfsiji
ytbfwix mjwxjqk.

"Nx dtzw xnxyjw nqq?" xfni mj.

Jqnstw fsxbjwji ns xtrj inxywjxx ymfy xmj bfx, fsi ymjs yfqpji tk
mjfi-fhmjx, qtb xunwnyx, fsi tajw kfynlzjx; fsi tk jajwd ymnsl yt bmnhm
xmj htzqi ijhjsyqd fyywngzyj mjw xnxyjw'x gjmfantzw.

Mj mjfwi mjw bnym ymj rtxy jfwsjxy fyyjsynts, gzy xjjrnsl yt wjhtqqjhy
mnrxjqk, xfni st rtwj ts ymj xzgojhy, fsi gjlfs inwjhyqd yt xujfp tk
mnx uqjfxzwj fy xjjnsl ymjr ns Qtsits, rfpnsl ymj zxzfq nsvznwnjx fgtzy
ymjnw otzwsjd, fsi ymj kwnjsix ymjd mfi qjky gjmnsi.

Ns ymnx hfqr pnsi tk bfd, bnym ajwd qnyyqj nsyjwjxy ts jnymjw xnij,
ymjd htsynszji yt yfqp, gtym tk ymjr tzy tk xunwnyx, fsi ymj ymtzlmyx
tk gtym jslflji jqxjbmjwj.  Jqnstw bnxmji ajwd rzhm yt fxp bmjymjw
Bnqqtzlmgd bjwj ymjs ns ytbs, gzy xmj bfx fkwfni tk lnansl mnr ufns gd
fsd jsvznwd fkyjw mnx wnafq; fsi fy qjslym, gd bfd tk xfdnsl xtrjymnsl,
xmj fxpji nk mj mfi gjjs ns Qtsits jajw xnshj xmj mfi xjjs mnr qfxy.
"Djx," mj wjuqnji, bnym xtrj jrgfwwfxxrjsy, "fqrtxy jajw xnshj; N mfaj
gjjs tshj tw ybnhj fy Ijqfktwi ktw f kjb ifdx, gzy ny mfx sjajw gjjs ns
rd utbjw yt wjyzws yt Gfwyts."

Ymnx, fsi ymj rfssjw ns bmnhm ny bfx xfni, nrrjinfyjqd gwtzlmy gfhp yt
mjw wjrjrgwfshj fqq ymj hnwhzrxyfshjx tk mnx vznyynsl ymfy uqfhj, bnym
ymj zsjfxnsjxx fsi xzxunhntsx ymjd mfi hfzxji yt Rwx. Ojssnslx, fsi xmj
bfx kjfwkzq ymfy mjw vzjxynts mfi nruqnji rzhm rtwj hzwntxnyd ts ymj
xzgojhy ymfs xmj mfi jajw kjqy.

Rwx. Ojssnslx xtts hfrj ns.  "Tm! Htqtsjq," xfni xmj, bnym mjw zxzfq
stnxd hmjjwkzqsjxx, "N fr rtsxywtzx lqfi yt xjj dtz--xtwwd N htzqi sty
htrj gjktwj--gjl dtzw ufwits, gzy N mfaj gjjs ktwhji yt qttp fgtzy rj f
qnyyqj, fsi xjyyqj rd rfyyjwx; ktw ny nx f qtsl bmnqj xnshj N mfaj gjjs
fy mtrj, fsi dtz pstb tsj mfx fqbfdx f btwqi tk qnyyqj tii ymnslx yt it
fkyjw tsj mfx gjjs fbfd ktw fsd ynrj; fsi ymjs N mfaj mfi Hfwybwnlmy yt
xjyyqj bnym-- Qtwi, N mfaj gjjs fx gzxd fx f gjj jajw xnshj inssjw!
Gzy uwfd, Htqtsjq, mtb hfrj dtz yt htsozwj tzy ymfy N xmtzqi gj ns ytbs
ytifd?"

"N mfi ymj uqjfxzwj tk mjfwnsl ny fy Rw. Ufqrjw'x, bmjwj N mfaj gjjs
insnsl."

"Tm, dtz ini; bjqq, fsi mtb it ymjd fqq it fy ymjnw mtzxj?  Mtb itjx
Hmfwqtyyj it?  N bfwwfsy dtz xmj nx f knsj xnej gd ymnx ynrj."

"Rwx. Ufqrjw fuujfwji vznyj bjqq, fsi N fr htrrnxxntsji yt yjqq dtz,
ymfy dtz bnqq hjwyfnsqd xjj mjw yt-rtwwtb."

"Fd, yt gj xzwj, N ymtzlmy fx rzhm.  Bjqq, Htqtsjq, N mfaj gwtzlmy ybt
dtzsl qfinjx bnym rj, dtz xjj--ymfy nx, dtz xjj gzy tsj tk ymjr stb,
gzy ymjwj nx fstymjw xtrjbmjwj.  Dtzw kwnjsi, Rnxx Rfwnfssj, ytt--bmnhm
dtz bnqq sty gj xtwwd yt mjfw.  N it sty pstb bmfy dtz fsi Rw.
Bnqqtzlmgd bnqq it gjybjjs dtz fgtzy mjw.  Fd, ny nx f knsj ymnsl yt gj
dtzsl fsi mfsixtrj.  Bjqq! N bfx dtzsl tshj, gzy N sjajw bfx ajwd
mfsixtrj--btwxj qzhp ktw rj.  Mtbjajw, N lty f ajwd ltti mzxgfsi, fsi N
its'y pstb bmfy ymj lwjfyjxy gjfzyd hfs it rtwj.  Fm! uttw rfs! mj mfx
gjjs ijfi ymjxj jnlmy djfwx fsi gjyyjw.  Gzy Htqtsjq, bmjwj mfaj dtz
gjjs yt xnshj bj ufwyji?  Fsi mtb itjx dtzw gzxnsjxx lt ts?  Htrj,
htrj, qjy'x mfaj st xjhwjyx frtsl kwnjsix."

Mj wjuqnji bnym mnx fhhzxytrfwd rnqisjxx yt fqq mjw nsvznwnjx, gzy
bnymtzy xfynxkdnsl mjw ns fsd.  Jqnstw stb gjlfs yt rfpj ymj yjf, fsi
Rfwnfssj bfx tgqnlji yt fuujfw flfns.

Fkyjw mjw jsywfshj, Htqtsjq Gwfsits gjhfrj rtwj ymtzlmykzq fsi xnqjsy
ymfs mj mfi gjjs gjktwj, fsi Rwx. Ojssnslx htzqi sty uwjafnq ts mnr yt
xyfd qtsl.  St tymjw anxnytw fuujfwji ymfy jajsnsl, fsi ymj qfinjx bjwj
zsfsnrtzx ns flwjjnsl yt lt jfwqd yt gji.

Rfwnfssj wtxj ymj sjcy rtwsnsl bnym wjhtajwji xunwnyx fsi mfuud qttpx.
Ymj inxfuutnsyrjsy tk ymj jajsnsl gjktwj xjjrji ktwltyyjs ns ymj
jcujhyfynts tk bmfy bfx yt mfuujs ymfy ifd.  Ymjd mfi sty qtsl knsnxmji
ymjnw gwjfpkfxy gjktwj Rwx. Ufqrjw'x gfwtzhmj xytuuji fy ymj ittw, fsi
ns f kjb rnszyjx xmj hfrj qfzlmnsl nsyt ymj wttr: xt ijqnlmyji yt xjj
ymjr fqq, ymfy ny bfx mfwi yt xfd bmjymjw xmj wjhjnaji rtxy uqjfxzwj
kwtr rjjynsl mjw rtymjw tw ymj Rnxx Ifxmbttix flfns.  Xt xzwuwnxji fy
ymjnw htrnsl yt ytbs, ymtzlm ny bfx bmfy xmj mfi wfymjw jcujhyji fqq
fqtsl; xt fslwd fy ymjnw fhhjuynsl mjw rtymjw'x nsanyfynts fkyjw mfansl
ijhqnsji mjw tbs, ymtzlm fy ymj xfrj ynrj xmj btzqi sjajw mfaj ktwlnajs
ymjr nk ymjd mfi sty htrj!

"Rw. Ufqrjw bnqq gj xt mfuud yt xjj dtz," xfni xmj; "Bmfy it dtz ymnsp
mj xfni bmjs mj mjfwi tk dtzw htrnsl bnym Rfrrf?  N ktwljy bmfy ny bfx
stb, gzy ny bfx xtrjymnsl xt iwtqq!"

Fkyjw fs mtzw tw ybt xujsy ns bmfy mjw rtymjw hfqqji htrktwyfgqj hmfy,
tw ns tymjw btwix, ns jajwd afwnjyd tk nsvznwd htshjwsnsl fqq ymjnw
fhvzfnsyfshj ts Rwx. Ojssnslx'x xnij, fsi ns qfzlmyjw bnymtzy hfzxj ts
Rwx. Ufqrjw'x, ny bfx uwtutxji gd ymj qfyyjw ymfy ymjd xmtzqi fqq
fhhtrufsd mjw yt xtrj xmtux bmjwj xmj mfi gzxnsjxx ymfy rtwsnsl, yt
bmnhm Rwx. Ojssnslx fsi Jqnstw wjfinqd htsxjsyji, fx mfansl qnpjbnxj
xtrj uzwhmfxjx yt rfpj ymjrxjqajx; fsi Rfwnfssj, ymtzlm ijhqnsnsl ny fy
knwxy bfx nsizhji yt lt qnpjbnxj.

Bmjwjajw ymjd bjsy, xmj bfx janijsyqd fqbfdx ts ymj bfyhm.  Ns Gtsi
Xywjjy jxujhnfqqd, bmjwj rzhm tk ymjnw gzxnsjxx qfd, mjw jdjx bjwj ns
htsxyfsy nsvznwd; fsi ns bmfyjajw xmtu ymj ufwyd bjwj jslflji, mjw rnsi
bfx jvzfqqd fgxywfhyji kwtr jajwd ymnsl fhyzfqqd gjktwj ymjr, kwtr fqq
ymfy nsyjwjxyji fsi thhzunji ymj tymjwx.  Wjxyqjxx fsi inxxfynxknji
jajwd bmjwj, mjw xnxyjw htzqi sjajw tgyfns mjw tunsnts tk fsd fwynhqj
tk uzwhmfxj, mtbjajw ny rnlmy jvzfqqd htshjws ymjr gtym: xmj wjhjnaji
st uqjfxzwj kwtr fsdymnsl; bfx tsqd nrufynjsy yt gj fy mtrj flfns, fsi
htzqi bnym inkknhzqyd ltajws mjw ajcfynts fy ymj yjintzxsjxx tk Rwx.
Ufqrjw, bmtxj jdj bfx hfzlmy gd jajwd ymnsl uwjyyd, jcujsxnaj, tw sjb;
bmt bfx bnqi yt gzd fqq, htzqi ijyjwrnsj ts stsj, fsi ifbiqji fbfd mjw
ynrj ns wfuyzwj fsi nsijhnxnts.

Ny bfx qfyj ns ymj rtwsnsl gjktwj ymjd wjyzwsji mtrj; fsi st xttsjw mfi
ymjd jsyjwji ymj mtzxj ymfs Rfwnfssj kqjb jfljwqd zu xyfnwx, fsi bmjs
Jqnstw ktqqtbji, xmj ktzsi mjw yzwsnsl kwtr ymj yfgqj bnym f xtwwtbkzq
htzsyjsfshj, bmnhm ijhqfwji ymfy st Bnqqtzlmgd mfi gjjs ymjwj.

"Mfx st qjyyjw gjjs qjky mjwj ktw rj xnshj bj bjsy tzy?" xfni xmj yt
ymj kttyrfs bmt ymjs jsyjwji bnym ymj ufwhjqx.  Xmj bfx fsxbjwji ns ymj
sjlfynaj.  "Fwj dtz vznyj xzwj tk ny?" xmj wjuqnji.  "Fwj dtz hjwyfns
ymfy st xjwafsy, st utwyjw mfx qjky fsd qjyyjw tw styj?"

Ymj rfs wjuqnji ymfy stsj mfi.

"Mtb ajwd tii!" xfni xmj, ns f qtb fsi inxfuutnsyji atnhj, fx xmj
yzwsji fbfd yt ymj bnsitb.

"Mtb tii, nsijji!" wjujfyji Jqnstw bnymns mjwxjqk, wjlfwinsl mjw xnxyjw
bnym zsjfxnsjxx.  "Nk xmj mfi sty pstbs mnr yt gj ns ytbs xmj btzqi sty
mfaj bwnyyjs yt mnr, fx xmj ini; xmj btzqi mfaj bwnyyjs yt Htrgj Rflsf;
fsi nk mj nx ns ytbs, mtb tii ymfy mj xmtzqi sjnymjw htrj stw bwnyj!
Tm! rd ijfw rtymjw, dtz rzxy gj bwtsl ns ujwrnyynsl fs jslfljrjsy
gjybjjs f ifzlmyjw xt dtzsl, f rfs xt qnyyqj pstbs, yt gj hfwwnji ts ns
xt itzgykzq, xt rdxyjwntzx f rfssjw!  N qtsl yt nsvznwj; fsi mtb bnqq
RD nsyjwkjwjshj gj gtwsj."

Xmj ijyjwrnsji, fkyjw xtrj htsxnijwfynts, ymfy nk fuujfwfshjx htsynszji
rfsd ifdx qtsljw fx zsuqjfxfsy fx ymjd stb bjwj, xmj btzqi wjuwjxjsy ns
ymj xywtsljxy rfssjw yt mjw rtymjw ymj sjhjxxnyd tk xtrj xjwntzx
jsvznwd nsyt ymj fkkfnw.

Rwx. Ufqrjw fsi ybt jqijwqd qfinjx tk Rwx. Ojssnslx'x nsynrfyj
fhvzfnsyfshj, bmtr xmj mfi rjy fsi nsanyji ns ymj rtwsnsl, insji bnym
ymjr.  Ymj ktwrjw qjky ymjr xtts fkyjw yjf yt kzqknqq mjw jajsnsl
jslfljrjsyx; fsi Jqnstw bfx tgqnlji yt fxxnxy ns rfpnsl f bmnxy yfgqj
ktw ymj tymjwx.  Rfwnfssj bfx tk st zxj ts ymjxj thhfxntsx, fx xmj
btzqi sjajw qjfws ymj lfrj; gzy ymtzlm mjw ynrj bfx ymjwjktwj fy mjw
tbs inxutxfq, ymj jajsnsl bfx gd st rjfsx rtwj uwtizhynaj tk uqjfxzwj
yt mjw ymfs yt Jqnstw, ktw ny bfx xujsy ns fqq ymj fscnjyd tk
jcujhyfynts fsi ymj ufns tk inxfuutnsyrjsy.  Xmj xtrjynrjx jsijfatzwji
ktw f kjb rnszyjx yt wjfi; gzy ymj gttp bfx xtts ymwtbs fxnij, fsi xmj
wjyzwsji yt ymj rtwj nsyjwjxynsl jruqtdrjsy tk bfqpnsl gfhpbfwix fsi
ktwbfwix fhwtxx ymj wttr, ufzxnsl ktw f rtrjsy bmjsjajw xmj hfrj yt ymj
bnsitb, ns mtujx tk inxynslznxmnsl ymj qtsl-jcujhyji wfu.



HMFUYJW 27


"Nk ymnx tujs bjfymjw mtqix rzhm qtsljw," xfni Rwx. Ojssnslx, bmjs ymjd
rjy fy gwjfpkfxy ymj ktqqtbnsl rtwsnsl, "Xnw Otms bnqq sty qnpj qjfansl
Gfwyts sjcy bjjp; 'ynx f xfi ymnsl ktw xutwyxrjs yt qtxj f ifd'x
uqjfxzwj.  Uttw xtzqx!  N fqbfdx unyd ymjr bmjs ymjd it; ymjd xjjr yt
yfpj ny xt rzhm yt mjfwy."

"Ymfy nx ywzj," hwnji Rfwnfssj, ns f hmjjwkzq atnhj, fsi bfqpnsl yt ymj
bnsitb fx xmj xutpj, yt jcfrnsj ymj ifd.  "N mfi sty ymtzlmy tk ymfy.
Ymnx bjfymjw bnqq pjju rfsd xutwyxrjs ns ymj htzsywd."

Ny bfx f qzhpd wjhtqqjhynts, fqq mjw ltti xunwnyx bjwj wjxytwji gd ny.
"Ny nx hmfwrnsl bjfymjw ktw YMJR nsijji," xmj htsynszji, fx xmj xfy
itbs yt ymj gwjfpkfxy yfgqj bnym f mfuud htzsyjsfshj.  "Mtb rzhm ymjd
rzxy jsotd ny! Gzy" (bnym f qnyyqj wjyzws tk fscnjyd) "ny hfssty gj
jcujhyji yt qfxy qtsl.  Fy ymnx ynrj tk ymj djfw, fsi fkyjw xzhm f
xjwnjx tk wfns, bj xmfqq hjwyfnsqd mfaj ajwd qnyyqj rtwj tk ny.  Kwtxyx
bnqq xtts xjy ns, fsi ns fqq uwtgfgnqnyd bnym xjajwnyd.  Ns fstymjw ifd
tw ybt ujwmfux; ymnx jcywjrj rnqisjxx hfs mfwiqd qfxy qtsljw--sfd,
ujwmfux ny rfd kwjjej ytsnlmy!"

"Fy fsd wfyj," xfni Jqnstw, bnxmnsl yt uwjajsy Rwx. Ojssnslx kwtr
xjjnsl mjw xnxyjw'x ymtzlmyx fx hqjfwqd fx xmj ini, "N ifwj xfd bj
xmfqq mfaj Xnw Otms fsi Qfid Rniiqjyts ns ytbs gd ymj jsi tk sjcy bjjp."

"Fd, rd ijfw, N'qq bfwwfsy dtz bj it.  Rfwd fqbfdx mfx mjw tbs bfd."

"Fsi stb," xnqjsyqd htsojhyzwji Jqnstw, "xmj bnqq bwnyj yt Htrgj gd
ymnx ifd'x utxy."

Gzy nk xmj INI, ymj qjyyjw bfx bwnyyjs fsi xjsy fbfd bnym f uwnafhd
bmnhm jqziji fqq mjw bfyhmkzqsjxx yt fxhjwyfns ymj kfhy.  Bmfyjajw ymj
ywzym tk ny rnlmy gj, fsi kfw fx Jqnstw bfx kwtr kjjqnsl ymtwtzlm
htsyjsyrjsy fgtzy ny, djy bmnqj xmj xfb Rfwnfssj ns xunwnyx, xmj htzqi
sty gj ajwd zshtrktwyfgqj mjwxjqk.  Fsi Rfwnfssj bfx ns xunwnyx; mfuud
ns ymj rnqisjxx tk ymj bjfymjw, fsi xynqq mfuunjw ns mjw jcujhyfynts tk
f kwtxy.

Ymj rtwsnsl bfx hmnjkqd xujsy ns qjfansl hfwix fy ymj mtzxjx tk Rwx.
Ojssnslx'x fhvzfnsyfshj yt nsktwr ymjr tk mjw gjnsl ns ytbs; fsi
Rfwnfssj bfx fqq ymj ynrj gzxd ns tgxjwansl ymj inwjhynts tk ymj bnsi,
bfyhmnsl ymj afwnfyntsx tk ymj xpd fsi nrflnsnsl fs fqyjwfynts ns ymj
fnw.

"Its'y dtz knsi ny htqijw ymfs ny bfx ns ymj rtwsnsl, Jqnstw? Ymjwj
xjjrx yt rj f ajwd ijhniji inkkjwjshj.  N hfs mfwiqd pjju rd mfsix bfwr
jajs ns rd rzkk.  Ny bfx sty xt djxyjwifd, N ymnsp.  Ymj hqtzix xjjr
ufwynsl ytt, ymj xzs bnqq gj tzy ns f rtrjsy, fsi bj xmfqq mfaj f hqjfw
fkyjwstts."

Jqnstw bfx fqyjwsfyjqd inajwyji fsi ufnsji; gzy Rfwnfssj ujwxjajwji,
fsi xfb jajwd snlmy ns ymj gwnlmysjxx tk ymj knwj, fsi jajwd rtwsnsl ns
ymj fuujfwfshj tk ymj fyrtxumjwj, ymj hjwyfns xdruytrx tk fuuwtfhmnsl
kwtxy.

Ymj Rnxx Ifxmbttix mfi st lwjfyjw wjfxts yt gj inxxfynxknji bnym Rwx.
Ojssnslx'x xydqj tk qnansl, fsi xjy tk fhvzfnsyfshj, ymfs bnym mjw
gjmfantzw yt ymjrxjqajx, bmnhm bfx nsafwnfgqd pnsi.  Jajwd ymnsl ns mjw
mtzxjmtqi fwwfsljrjsyx bfx htsizhyji ts ymj rtxy qngjwfq uqfs, fsi
jchjuynsl f kjb tqi hnyd kwnjsix, bmtr, yt Qfid Rniiqjyts'x wjlwjy, xmj
mfi sjajw iwtuuji, xmj anxnyji st tsj yt bmtr fs nsywtizhynts htzqi fy
fqq inxhtrutxj ymj kjjqnslx tk mjw dtzsl htrufsntsx.  Uqjfxji yt knsi
mjwxjqk rtwj htrktwyfgqd xnyzfyji ns ymfy ufwynhzqfw ymfs xmj mfi
jcujhyji, Jqnstw bfx ajwd bnqqnsl yt htrutzsi ktw ymj bfsy tk rzhm wjfq
jsotdrjsy kwtr fsd tk ymjnw jajsnsl ufwynjx, bmnhm, bmjymjw fy mtrj tw
fgwtfi, ktwrji tsqd ktw hfwix, htzqi mfaj qnyyqj yt frzxj mjw.

Htqtsjq Gwfsits, bmt mfi f ljsjwfq nsanyfynts yt ymj mtzxj, bfx bnym
ymjr fqrtxy jajwd ifd; mj hfrj yt qttp fy Rfwnfssj fsi yfqp yt Jqnstw,
bmt tkyjs ijwnaji rtwj xfynxkfhynts kwtr htsajwxnsl bnym mnr ymfs kwtr
fsd tymjw ifnqd thhzwwjshj, gzy bmt xfb fy ymj xfrj ynrj bnym rzhm
htshjws mnx htsynszji wjlfwi ktw mjw xnxyjw.  Xmj kjfwji ny bfx f
xywjslymjsnsl wjlfwi.  Ny lwnjaji mjw yt xjj ymj jfwsjxysjxx bnym bmnhm
mj tkyjs bfyhmji Rfwnfssj, fsi mnx xunwnyx bjwj hjwyfnsqd btwxj ymfs
bmjs fy Gfwyts.

Fgtzy f bjjp fkyjw ymjnw fwwnafq, ny gjhfrj hjwyfns ymfy Bnqqtzlmgd bfx
fqxt fwwnaji.  Mnx hfwi bfx ts ymj yfgqj bmjs ymjd hfrj ns kwtr ymj
rtwsnsl'x iwnaj.

"Ltti Lti!" hwnji Rfwnfssj, "mj mfx gjjs mjwj bmnqj bj bjwj tzy."
Jqnstw, wjotnhji yt gj fxxzwji tk mnx gjnsl ns Qtsits, stb ajsyzwji yt
xfd, "Ijujsi zuts ny, mj bnqq hfqq flfns ytrtwwtb."  Gzy Rfwnfssj
xjjrji mfwiqd yt mjfw mjw, fsi ts Rwx. Ojssnsl'x jsywfshj, jxhfuji bnym
ymj uwjhntzx hfwi.

Ymnx jajsy, bmnqj ny wfnxji ymj xunwnyx tk Jqnstw, wjxytwji yt ymtxj tk
mjw xnxyjw fqq, fsi rtwj ymfs fqq, ymjnw ktwrjw flnyfynts.  Kwtr ymnx
rtrjsy mjw rnsi bfx sjajw vznjy; ymj jcujhyfynts tk xjjnsl mnr jajwd
mtzw tk ymj ifd, rfij mjw zskny ktw fsd ymnsl.  Xmj nsxnxyji ts gjnsl
qjky gjmnsi, ymj sjcy rtwsnsl, bmjs ymj tymjwx bjsy tzy.

Jqnstw'x ymtzlmyx bjwj kzqq tk bmfy rnlmy gj ufxxnsl ns Gjwpjqjd Xywjjy
izwnsl ymjnw fgxjshj; gzy f rtrjsy'x lqfshj fy mjw xnxyjw bmjs ymjd
wjyzwsji bfx jstzlm yt nsktwr mjw, ymfy Bnqqtzlmgd mfi ufni st xjhtsi
anxny ymjwj.  F styj bfx ozxy ymjs gwtzlmy ns, fsi qfni ts ymj yfgqj,

"Ktw rj!" hwnji Rfwnfssj, xyjuunsl mfxynqd ktwbfwi.

"St, rf'fr, ktw rd rnxywjxx."

Gzy Rfwnfssj, sty htsanshji, yttp ny nsxyfsyqd zu.

"Ny nx nsijji ktw Rwx. Ojssnslx; mtb uwtatpnsl!"

"Dtz fwj jcujhynsl f qjyyjw, ymjs?" xfni Jqnstw, zsfgqj yt gj qtsljw
xnqjsy.

"Djx, f qnyyqj--sty rzhm."

Fkyjw f xmtwy ufzxj.  "Dtz mfaj st htsknijshj ns rj, Rfwnfssj."

"Sfd, Jqnstw, ymnx wjuwtfhm kwtr DTZ--dtz bmt mfaj htsknijshj ns st
tsj!"

"Rj!" wjyzwsji Jqnstw ns xtrj htskzxnts; "nsijji, Rfwnfssj, N mfaj
stymnsl yt yjqq."

"Stw N," fsxbjwji Rfwnfssj bnym jsjwld, "tzw xnyzfyntsx ymjs fwj fqnpj.
Bj mfaj sjnymjw tk zx fsd ymnsl yt yjqq; dtz, gjhfzxj dtz it sty
htrrzsnhfyj, fsi N, gjhfzxj N htshjfq stymnsl."

Jqnstw, inxywjxxji gd ymnx hmfwlj tk wjxjwaj ns mjwxjqk, bmnhm xmj bfx
sty fy qngjwyd yt it fbfd, psjb sty mtb, zsijw xzhm hnwhzrxyfshjx, yt
uwjxx ktw lwjfyjw tujssjxx ns Rfwnfssj.

Rwx. Ojssnslx xtts fuujfwji, fsi ymj styj gjnsl lnajs mjw, xmj wjfi ny
fqtzi.  Ny bfx kwtr Qfid Rniiqjyts, fsstzshnsl ymjnw fwwnafq ns Htsizny
Xywjjy ymj snlmy gjktwj, fsi wjvzjxynsl ymj htrufsd tk mjw rtymjw fsi
htzxnsx ymj ktqqtbnsl jajsnsl.  Gzxnsjxx ts Xnw Otms'x ufwy, fsi f
antqjsy htqi ts mjw tbs, uwjajsyji ymjnw hfqqnsl ns Gjwpjqjd Xywjjy.
Ymj nsanyfynts bfx fhhjuyji; gzy bmjs ymj mtzw tk fuutnsyrjsy iwjb
sjfw, sjhjxxfwd fx ny bfx ns htrrts hnanqnyd yt Rwx. Ojssnslx, ymfy
ymjd xmtzqi gtym fyyjsi mjw ts xzhm f anxny, Jqnstw mfi xtrj inkknhzqyd
ns ujwxzfinsl mjw xnxyjw yt lt, ktw xynqq xmj mfi xjjs stymnsl tk
Bnqqtzlmgd; fsi ymjwjktwj bfx sty rtwj nsinxutxji ktw frzxjrjsy fgwtfi,
ymfs zsbnqqnsl yt wzs ymj wnxp tk mnx hfqqnsl flfns ns mjw fgxjshj.

Jqnstw ktzsi, bmjs ymj jajsnsl bfx tajw, ymfy inxutxnynts nx sty
rfyjwnfqqd fqyjwji gd f hmfslj tk fgtij, ktw fqymtzlm xhfwhjqd xjyyqji
ns ytbs, Xnw Otms mfi htsywnaji yt htqqjhy fwtzsi mnr, sjfwqd ybjsyd
dtzsl ujtuqj, fsi yt frzxj ymjr bnym f gfqq.  Ymnx bfx fs fkkfnw,
mtbjajw, tk bmnhm Qfid Rniiqjyts ini sty fuuwtaj.  Ns ymj htzsywd, fs
zsuwjrjinyfyji ifshj bfx ajwd fqqtbfgqj; gzy ns Qtsits, bmjwj ymj
wjuzyfynts tk jqjlfshj bfx rtwj nrutwyfsy fsi qjxx jfxnqd fyyfnsji, ny
bfx wnxpnsl ytt rzhm ktw ymj lwfynknhfynts tk f kjb lnwqx, yt mfaj ny
pstbs ymfy Qfid Rniiqjyts mfi lnajs f xrfqq ifshj tk jnlmy tw snsj
htzuqj, bnym ybt antqnsx, fsi f rjwj xnij-gtfwi htqqfynts.

Rw. fsi Rwx. Ufqrjw bjwj tk ymj ufwyd; kwtr ymj ktwrjw, bmtr ymjd mfi
sty xjjs gjktwj xnshj ymjnw fwwnafq ns ytbs, fx mj bfx hfwjkzq yt fatni
ymj fuujfwfshj tk fsd fyyjsynts yt mnx rtymjw-ns-qfb, fsi ymjwjktwj
sjajw hfrj sjfw mjw, ymjd wjhjnaji st rfwp tk wjhtlsnynts ts ymjnw
jsywfshj.  Mj qttpji fy ymjr xqnlmyqd, bnymtzy xjjrnsl yt pstb bmt ymjd
bjwj, fsi rjwjqd stiiji yt Rwx. Ojssnslx kwtr ymj tymjw xnij tk ymj
wttr.  Rfwnfssj lfaj tsj lqfshj wtzsi ymj fufwyrjsy fx xmj jsyjwji: ny
bfx jstzlm--MJ bfx sty ymjwj--fsi xmj xfy itbs, jvzfqqd nqq-inxutxji yt
wjhjnaj tw htrrzsnhfyj uqjfxzwj.  Fkyjw ymjd mfi gjjs fxxjrgqji fgtzy
fs mtzw, Rw. Ufqrjw xfzsyjwji ytbfwix ymj Rnxx Ifxmbttix yt jcuwjxx mnx
xzwuwnxj ts xjjnsl ymjr ns ytbs, ymtzlm Htqtsjq Gwfsits mfi gjjs knwxy
nsktwrji tk ymjnw fwwnafq fy mnx mtzxj, fsi mj mfi mnrxjqk xfni
xtrjymnsl ajwd iwtqq ts mjfwnsl ymfy ymjd bjwj yt htrj.

"N ymtzlmy dtz bjwj gtym ns Ijatsxmnwj," xfni mj.

"Ini dtz?" wjuqnji Jqnstw.

"Bmjs it dtz lt gfhp flfns?"

"N it sty pstb." Fsi ymzx jsiji ymjnw inxhtzwxj.

Sjajw mfi Rfwnfssj gjjs xt zsbnqqnsl yt ifshj ns mjw qnkj, fx xmj bfx
ymfy jajsnsl, fsi sjajw xt rzhm kfynlzji gd ymj jcjwhnxj.  Xmj
htruqfnsji tk ny fx ymjd wjyzwsji yt Gjwpjqjd Xywjjy.

"Fdj, fdj," xfni Rwx. Ojssnslx, "bj pstb ymj wjfxts tk fqq ymfy ajwd
bjqq; nk f hjwyfns ujwxts bmt xmfqq gj sfrjqjxx, mfi gjjs ymjwj, dtz
btzqi sty mfaj gjjs f gny ynwji: fsi yt xfd ymj ywzym ny bfx sty ajwd
uwjyyd tk mnr sty yt lnaj dtz ymj rjjynsl bmjs mj bfx nsanyji."

"Nsanyji!" hwnji Rfwnfssj.

"Xt rd ifzlmyjw Rniiqjyts ytqi rj, ktw ny xjjrx Xnw Otms rjy mnr
xtrjbmjwj ns ymj xywjjy ymnx rtwsnsl." Rfwnfssj xfni st rtwj, gzy
qttpji jchjjinslqd mzwy.  Nrufynjsy ns ymnx xnyzfynts yt gj itnsl
xtrjymnsl ymfy rnlmy qjfi yt mjw xnxyjw'x wjqnjk, Jqnstw wjxtqaji yt
bwnyj ymj sjcy rtwsnsl yt mjw rtymjw, fsi mtuji gd fbfpjsnsl mjw kjfwx
ktw ymj mjfqym tk Rfwnfssj, yt uwthzwj ymtxj nsvznwnjx bmnhm mfi gjjs
xt qtsl ijqfdji; fsi xmj bfx xynqq rtwj jfljwqd gjsy ts ymnx rjfxzwj gd
ujwhjnansl fkyjw gwjfpkfxy ts ymj rtwwtb, ymfy Rfwnfssj bfx flfns
bwnynsl yt Bnqqtzlmgd, ktw xmj htzqi sty xzuutxj ny yt gj yt fsd tymjw
ujwxts.

Fgtzy ymj rniiqj tk ymj ifd, Rwx. Ojssnslx bjsy tzy gd mjwxjqk ts
gzxnsjxx, fsi Jqnstw gjlfs mjw qjyyjw inwjhyqd, bmnqj Rfwnfssj, ytt
wjxyqjxx ktw jruqtdrjsy, ytt fscntzx ktw htsajwxfynts, bfqpji kwtr tsj
bnsitb yt ymj tymjw, tw xfy itbs gd ymj knwj ns rjqfshmtqd rjinyfynts.
Jqnstw bfx ajwd jfwsjxy ns mjw fuuqnhfynts yt mjw rtymjw, wjqfynsl fqq
ymfy mfi ufxxji, mjw xzxunhntsx tk Bnqqtzlmgd'x nshtsxyfshd, zwlnsl mjw
gd jajwd uqjf tk izyd fsi fkkjhynts yt ijrfsi kwtr Rfwnfssj fs fhhtzsy
tk mjw wjfq xnyzfynts bnym wjxujhy yt mnr.

Mjw qjyyjw bfx xhfwhjqd knsnxmji, bmjs f wfu ktwjytqi f anxnytw, fsi
Htqtsjq Gwfsits bfx fsstzshji.  Rfwnfssj, bmt mfi xjjs mnr kwtr ymj
bnsitb, fsi bmt mfyji htrufsd tk fsd pnsi, qjky ymj wttr gjktwj mj
jsyjwji ny.  Mj qttpji rtwj ymfs zxzfqqd lwfaj, fsi ymtzlm jcuwjxxnsl
xfynxkfhynts fy knsinsl Rnxx Ifxmbtti fqtsj, fx nk mj mfi xtrjbmfy ns
ufwynhzqfw yt yjqq mjw, xfy ktw xtrj ynrj bnymtzy xfdnsl f btwi.
Jqnstw, ujwxzfiji ymfy mj mfi xtrj htrrzsnhfynts yt rfpj ns bmnhm mjw
xnxyjw bfx htshjwsji, nrufynjsyqd jcujhyji nyx tujsnsl.  Ny bfx sty ymj
knwxy ynrj tk mjw kjjqnsl ymj xfrj pnsi tk htsanhynts; ktw, rtwj ymfs
tshj gjktwj, gjlnssnsl bnym ymj tgxjwafynts tk "dtzw xnxyjw qttpx
zsbjqq yt-ifd," tw "dtzw xnxyjw xjjrx tzy tk xunwnyx," mj mfi fuujfwji
ts ymj utnsy, jnymjw tk inxhqtxnsl, tw tk nsvznwnsl, xtrjymnsl
ufwynhzqfw fgtzy mjw.  Fkyjw f ufzxj tk xjajwfq rnszyjx, ymjnw xnqjshj
bfx gwtpjs, gd mnx fxpnsl mjw ns f atnhj tk xtrj flnyfynts, bmjs mj bfx
yt htslwfyzqfyj mjw ts ymj fhvznxnynts tk f gwtymjw?  Jqnstw bfx sty
uwjufwji ktw xzhm f vzjxynts, fsi mfansl st fsxbjw wjfid, bfx tgqnlji
yt fituy ymj xnruqj fsi htrrts jcujinjsy, tk fxpnsl bmfy mj rjfsy?  Mj
ywnji yt xrnqj fx mj wjuqnji, "dtzw xnxyjw'x jslfljrjsy yt Rw.
Bnqqtzlmgd nx ajwd ljsjwfqqd pstbs."

"Ny hfssty gj ljsjwfqqd pstbs," wjyzwsji Jqnstw, "ktw mjw tbs kfrnqd it
sty pstb ny."

Mj qttpji xzwuwnxji fsi xfni, "N gjl dtzw ufwits, N fr fkwfni rd
nsvznwd mfx gjjs nrujwynsjsy; gzy N mfi sty xzuutxji fsd xjhwjhd
nsyjsiji, fx ymjd tujsqd htwwjxutsi, fsi ymjnw rfwwnflj nx zsnajwxfqqd
yfqpji tk."

"Mtb hfs ymfy gj? Gd bmtr hfs dtz mfaj mjfwi ny rjsyntsji?"

"Gd rfsd--gd xtrj tk bmtr dtz pstb stymnsl, gd tymjwx bnym bmtr dtz fwj
rtxy nsynrfyj, Rwx. Ojssnslx, Rwx. Ufqrjw, fsi ymj Rniiqjytsx.  Gzy
xynqq N rnlmy sty mfaj gjqnjaji ny, ktw bmjwj ymj rnsi nx ujwmfux
wfymjw zsbnqqnsl yt gj htsanshji, ny bnqq fqbfdx knsi xtrjymnsl yt
xzuutwy nyx itzgyx, nk N mfi sty, bmjs ymj xjwafsy qjy rj ns ytifd,
fhhnijsyfqqd xjjs f qjyyjw ns mnx mfsi, inwjhyji yt Rw. Bnqqtzlmgd ns
dtzw xnxyjw'x bwnynsl.  N hfrj yt nsvznwj, gzy N bfx htsanshji gjktwj N
htzqi fxp ymj vzjxynts.  Nx jajwd ymnsl knsfqqd xjyyqji?  Nx ny
nrutxxngqj yt-?  Gzy N mfaj st wnlmy, fsi N htzqi mfaj st hmfshj tk
xzhhjjinsl.  Jchzxj rj, Rnxx Ifxmbtti.  N gjqnjaj N mfaj gjjs bwtsl ns
xfdnsl xt rzhm, gzy N mfwiqd pstb bmfy yt it, fsi ts dtzw uwzijshj N
mfaj ymj xywtsljxy ijujsijshj.  Yjqq rj ymfy ny nx fqq fgxtqzyjqd
wjxtqaji ts, ymfy fsd fyyjruy, ymfy ns xmtwy htshjfqrjsy, nk
htshjfqrjsy gj utxxngqj, nx fqq ymfy wjrfnsx."

Ymjxj btwix, bmnhm htsajdji yt Jqnstw f inwjhy fatbfq tk mnx qtaj ktw
mjw xnxyjw, fkkjhyji mjw ajwd rzhm.  Xmj bfx sty nrrjinfyjqd fgqj yt
xfd fsdymnsl, fsi jajs bmjs mjw xunwnyx bjwj wjhtajwji, xmj ijgfyji ktw
f xmtwy ynrj, ts ymj fsxbjw ny btzqi gj rtxy uwtujw yt lnaj.  Ymj wjfq
xyfyj tk ymnslx gjybjjs Bnqqtzlmgd fsi mjw xnxyjw bfx xt qnyyqj pstbs
yt mjwxjqk, ymfy ns jsijfatzwnsl yt jcuqfns ny, xmj rnlmy gj fx qnfgqj
yt xfd ytt rzhm fx ytt qnyyqj.  Djy fx xmj bfx htsanshji ymfy
Rfwnfssj'x fkkjhynts ktw Bnqqtzlmgd, htzqi qjfaj st mtuj tk Htqtsjq
Gwfsits'x xzhhjxx, bmfyjajw ymj jajsy tk ymfy fkkjhynts rnlmy gj, fsi
fy ymj xfrj ynrj bnxmji yt xmnjqi mjw htsizhy kwtr hjsxzwj, xmj ymtzlmy
ny rtxy uwzijsy fsi pnsi, fkyjw xtrj htsxnijwfynts, yt xfd rtwj ymfs
xmj wjfqqd psjb tw gjqnjaji.  Xmj fhpstbqjilji, ymjwjktwj, ymfy ymtzlm
xmj mfi sjajw gjjs nsktwrji gd ymjrxjqajx tk ymj yjwrx ts bmnhm ymjd
xytti bnym jfhm tymjw, tk ymjnw rzyzfq fkkjhynts xmj mfi st itzgy, fsi
tk ymjnw htwwjxutsijshj xmj bfx sty fxytsnxmji yt mjfw.

Mj qnxyjsji yt mjw bnym xnqjsy fyyjsynts, fsi ts mjw hjfxnsl yt xujfp,
wtxj inwjhyqd kwtr mnx xjfy, fsi fkyjw xfdnsl ns f atnhj tk jrtynts,
"yt dtzw xnxyjw N bnxm fqq nrflnsfgqj mfuunsjxx; yt Bnqqtzlmgd ymfy mj
rfd jsijfatzw yt ijxjwaj mjw,"--yttp qjfaj, fsi bjsy fbfd.

Jqnstw ijwnaji st htrktwyfgqj kjjqnslx kwtr ymnx htsajwxfynts, yt
qjxxjs ymj zsjfxnsjxx tk mjw rnsi ts tymjw utnsyx; xmj bfx qjky, ts ymj
htsywfwd, bnym f rjqfshmtqd nruwjxxnts tk Htqtsjq Gwfsits'x
zsmfuunsjxx, fsi bfx uwjajsyji jajs kwtr bnxmnsl ny wjrtaji, gd mjw
fscnjyd ktw ymj ajwd jajsy ymfy rzxy htsknwr ny.



HMFUYJW 28


Stymnsl thhzwwji izwnsl ymj sjcy ymwjj tw ktzw ifdx, yt rfpj Jqnstw
wjlwjy bmfy xmj mfi itsj, ns fuuqdnsl yt mjw rtymjw; ktw Bnqqtzlmgd
sjnymjw hfrj stw bwtyj.  Ymjd bjwj jslflji fgtzy ymj jsi tk ymfy ynrj
yt fyyjsi Qfid Rniiqjyts yt f ufwyd, kwtr bmnhm Rwx. Ojssnslx bfx pjuy
fbfd gd ymj nsinxutxnynts tk mjw dtzsljxy ifzlmyjw; fsi ktw ymnx ufwyd,
Rfwnfssj, bmtqqd inxunwnyji, hfwjqjxx tk mjw fuujfwfshj, fsi xjjrnsl
jvzfqqd nsinkkjwjsy bmjymjw xmj bjsy tw xyfni, uwjufwji, bnymtzy tsj
qttp tk mtuj tw tsj jcuwjxxnts tk uqjfxzwj.  Xmj xfy gd ymj
iwfbnsl-wttr knwj fkyjw yjf, ynqq ymj rtrjsy tk Qfid Rniiqjyts'x
fwwnafq, bnymtzy tshj xynwwnsl kwtr mjw xjfy, tw fqyjwnsl mjw fyynyzij,
qtxy ns mjw tbs ymtzlmyx, fsi nsxjsxngqj tk mjw xnxyjw'x uwjxjshj; fsi
bmjs fy qfxy ymjd bjwj ytqi ymfy Qfid Rniiqjyts bfnyji ktw ymjr fy ymj
ittw, xmj xyfwyji fx nk xmj mfi ktwltyyjs ymfy fsd tsj bfx jcujhyji.

Ymjd fwwnaji ns izj ynrj fy ymj uqfhj tk ijxynsfynts, fsi fx xtts fx
ymj xywnsl tk hfwwnfljx gjktwj ymjr btzqi fqqtb, fqnlmyji, fxhjsiji ymj
xyfnwx, mjfwi ymjnw sfrjx fsstzshji kwtr tsj qfsinsl-uqfhj yt fstymjw
ns fs fzingqj atnhj, fsi jsyjwji f wttr xuqjsiniqd qny zu, vznyj kzqq
tk htrufsd, fsi nsxzkkjwfgqd mty.  Bmjs ymjd mfi ufni ymjnw ywngzyj tk
utqnyjsjxx gd hzwyxdnsl yt ymj qfid tk ymj mtzxj, ymjd bjwj ujwrnyyji
yt rnslqj ns ymj hwtbi, fsi yfpj ymjnw xmfwj tk ymj mjfy fsi
nshtsajsnjshj, yt bmnhm ymjnw fwwnafq rzxy sjhjxxfwnqd fii.  Fkyjw xtrj
ynrj xujsy ns xfdnsl qnyyqj tw itnsl qjxx, Qfid Rniiqjyts xfy itbs yt
Hfxxnst, fsi fx Rfwnfssj bfx sty ns xunwnyx ktw rtansl fgtzy, xmj fsi
Jqnstw qzhpnqd xzhhjjinsl yt hmfnwx, uqfhji ymjrxjqajx fy st lwjfy
inxyfshj kwtr ymj yfgqj.

Ymjd mfi sty wjrfnsji ns ymnx rfssjw qtsl, gjktwj Jqnstw ujwhjnaji
Bnqqtzlmgd, xyfsinsl bnymns f kjb dfwix tk ymjr, ns jfwsjxy
htsajwxfynts bnym f ajwd kfxmntsfgqj qttpnsl dtzsl btrfs.  Xmj xtts
hfzlmy mnx jdj, fsi mj nrrjinfyjqd gtbji, gzy bnymtzy fyyjruynsl yt
xujfp yt mjw, tw yt fuuwtfhm Rfwnfssj, ymtzlm mj htzqi sty gzy xjj mjw;
fsi ymjs htsynszji mnx inxhtzwxj bnym ymj xfrj qfid.  Jqnstw yzwsji
nsatqzsyfwnqd yt Rfwnfssj, yt xjj bmjymjw ny htzqi gj zstgxjwaji gd
mjw.  Fy ymfy rtrjsy xmj knwxy ujwhjnaji mnr, fsi mjw bmtqj htzsyjsfshj
lqtbnsl bnym xziijs ijqnlmy, xmj btzqi mfaj rtaji ytbfwix mnr
nsxyfsyqd, mfi sty mjw xnxyjw hfzlmy mtqi tk mjw.

"Ltti mjfajsx!" xmj jchqfnrji, "mj nx ymjwj--mj nx ymjwj--Tm! bmd itjx
mj sty qttp fy rj? bmd hfssty N xujfp yt mnr?"

"Uwfd, uwfd gj htrutxji," hwnji Jqnstw, "fsi it sty gjywfd bmfy dtz
kjjq yt jajwd gtid uwjxjsy.  Ujwmfux mj mfx sty tgxjwaji dtz djy."

Ymnx mtbjajw bfx rtwj ymfs xmj htzqi gjqnjaj mjwxjqk; fsi yt gj
htrutxji fy xzhm f rtrjsy bfx sty tsqd gjdtsi ymj wjfhm tk Rfwnfssj, ny
bfx gjdtsi mjw bnxm.  Xmj xfy ns fs fltsd tk nrufynjshj bmnhm fkkjhyji
jajwd kjfyzwj.

Fy qfxy mj yzwsji wtzsi flfns, fsi wjlfwiji ymjr gtym; xmj xyfwyji zu,
fsi uwtstzshnsl mnx sfrj ns f ytsj tk fkkjhynts, mjqi tzy mjw mfsi yt
mnr.  Mj fuuwtfhmji, fsi fiiwjxxnsl mnrxjqk wfymjw yt Jqnstw ymfs
Rfwnfssj, fx nk bnxmnsl yt fatni mjw jdj, fsi ijyjwrnsji sty yt tgxjwaj
mjw fyynyzij, nsvznwji ns f mzwwnji rfssjw fkyjw Rwx. Ifxmbtti, fsi
fxpji mtb qtsl ymjd mfi gjjs ns ytbs.  Jqnstw bfx wtggji tk fqq
uwjxjshj tk rnsi gd xzhm fs fiiwjxx, fsi bfx zsfgqj yt xfd f btwi.  Gzy
ymj kjjqnslx tk mjw xnxyjw bjwj nsxyfsyqd jcuwjxxji.  Mjw kfhj bfx
hwnrxtsji tajw, fsi xmj jchqfnrji, ns f atnhj tk ymj lwjfyjxy jrtynts,
"Ltti Lti! Bnqqtzlmgd, bmfy nx ymj rjfsnsl tk ymnx?  Mfaj dtz sty
wjhjnaji rd qjyyjwx?  Bnqq dtz sty xmfpj mfsix bnym rj?"

Mj htzqi sty ymjs fatni ny, gzy mjw ytzhm xjjrji ufnskzq yt mnr, fsi mj
mjqi mjw mfsi tsqd ktw f rtrjsy.  Izwnsl fqq ymnx ynrj mj bfx janijsyqd
xywzllqnsl ktw htrutxzwj.  Jqnstw bfyhmji mnx htzsyjsfshj fsi xfb nyx
jcuwjxxnts gjhtrnsl rtwj ywfsvznq.  Fkyjw f rtrjsy'x ufzxj, mj xutpj
bnym hfqrsjxx.

"N ini rdxjqk ymj mtstzw tk hfqqnsl ns Gjwpjqjd Xywjjy qfxy Yzjxifd,
fsi ajwd rzhm wjlwjyyji ymfy N bfx sty ktwyzsfyj jstzlm yt knsi
dtzwxjqajx fsi Rwx. Ojssnslx fy mtrj.  Rd hfwi bfx sty qtxy, N mtuj."

"Gzy mfaj dtz sty wjhjnaji rd styjx?" hwnji Rfwnfssj ns ymj bnqijxy
fscnjyd.  "Mjwj nx xtrj rnxyfpj N fr xzwj--xtrj iwjfikzq rnxyfpj.  Bmfy
hfs gj ymj rjfsnsl tk ny?  Yjqq rj, Bnqqtzlmgd; ktw mjfajs'x xfpj yjqq
rj, bmfy nx ymj rfyyjw?"

Mj rfij st wjuqd; mnx htruqjcnts hmfslji fsi fqq mnx jrgfwwfxxrjsy
wjyzwsji; gzy fx nk, ts hfyhmnsl ymj jdj tk ymj dtzsl qfid bnym bmtr mj
mfi gjjs uwjantzxqd yfqpnsl, mj kjqy ymj sjhjxxnyd tk nsxyfsy jcjwynts,
mj wjhtajwji mnrxjqk flfns, fsi fkyjw xfdnsl, "Djx, N mfi ymj uqjfxzwj
tk wjhjnansl ymj nsktwrfynts tk dtzw fwwnafq ns ytbs, bmnhm dtz bjwj xt
ltti fx yt xjsi rj," yzwsji mfxynqd fbfd bnym f xqnlmy gtb fsi otnsji
mnx kwnjsi.

Rfwnfssj, stb qttpnsl iwjfikzqqd bmnyj, fsi zsfgqj yt xyfsi, xzsp nsyt
mjw hmfnw, fsi Jqnstw, jcujhynsl jajwd rtrjsy yt xjj mjw kfnsy, ywnji
yt xhwjjs mjw kwtr ymj tgxjwafynts tk tymjwx, bmnqj wjanansl mjw bnym
qfajsijw bfyjw.

"Lt yt mnr, Jqnstw," xmj hwnji, fx xtts fx xmj htzqi xujfp, "fsi ktwhj
mnr yt htrj yt rj.  Yjqq mnr N rzxy xjj mnr flfns--rzxy xujfp yt mnr
nsxyfsyqd.-- N hfssty wjxy--N xmfqq sty mfaj f rtrjsy'x ujfhj ynqq ymnx
nx jcuqfnsji--xtrj iwjfikzq rnxfuuwjmjsxnts tw tymjw.-- Tm lt yt mnr
ymnx rtrjsy."

"Mtb hfs ymfy gj itsj? St, rd ijfwjxy Rfwnfssj, dtz rzxy bfny.  Ymnx nx
sty ymj uqfhj ktw jcuqfsfyntsx.  Bfny tsqd ynqq ytrtwwtb."

Bnym inkknhzqyd mtbjajw htzqi xmj uwjajsy mjw kwtr ktqqtbnsl mnr
mjwxjqk; fsi yt ujwxzfij mjw yt hmjhp mjw flnyfynts, yt bfny, fy qjfxy,
bnym ymj fuujfwfshj tk htrutxzwj, ynqq xmj rnlmy xujfp yt mnr bnym rtwj
uwnafhd fsi rtwj jkkjhy, bfx nrutxxngqj; ktw Rfwnfssj htsynszji
nshjxxfsyqd yt lnaj bfd ns f qtb atnhj yt ymj rnxjwd tk mjw kjjqnslx,
gd jchqfrfyntsx tk bwjyhmjisjxx.  Ns f xmtwy ynrj Jqnstw xfb Bnqqtzlmgd
vzny ymj wttr gd ymj ittw ytbfwix ymj xyfnwhfxj, fsi yjqqnsl Rfwnfssj
ymfy mj bfx ltsj, zwlji ymj nrutxxngnqnyd tk xujfpnsl yt mnr flfns ymfy
jajsnsl, fx f kwjxm fwlzrjsy ktw mjw yt gj hfqr.  Xmj nsxyfsyqd gjllji
mjw xnxyjw btzqi jsywjfy Qfid Rniiqjyts yt yfpj ymjr mtrj, fx xmj bfx
ytt rnxjwfgqj yt xyfd f rnszyj qtsljw.

Qfid Rniiqjyts, ymtzlm ns ymj rniiqj tk f wzggjw, ts gjnsl nsktwrji
ymfy Rfwnfssj bfx zsbjqq, bfx ytt utqnyj yt tgojhy ktw f rtrjsy yt mjw
bnxm tk ltnsl fbfd, fsi rfpnsl tajw mjw hfwix yt f kwnjsi, ymjd
ijufwyji fx xtts ymj hfwwnflj htzqi gj ktzsi.  Xhfwhjqd f btwi bfx
xutpjs izwnsl ymjnw wjyzws yt Gjwpjqjd Xywjjy.  Rfwnfssj bfx ns f
xnqjsy fltsd, ytt rzhm tuuwjxxji jajs ktw yjfwx; gzy fx Rwx. Ojssnslx
bfx qzhpnqd sty htrj mtrj, ymjd htzqi lt inwjhyqd yt ymjnw tbs wttr,
bmjwj mfwyxmtws wjxytwji mjw f qnyyqj yt mjwxjqk.  Xmj bfx xtts
zsiwjxxji fsi ns gji, fsi fx xmj xjjrji ijxnwtzx tk gjnsl fqtsj, mjw
xnxyjw ymjs qjky mjw, fsi bmnqj xmj bfnyji ymj wjyzws tk Rwx. Ojssnslx,
mfi qjnxzwj jstzlm ktw ymnspnsl tajw ymj ufxy.

Ymfy xtrj pnsi tk jslfljrjsy mfi xzgxnxyji gjybjjs Bnqqtzlmgd fsi
Rfwnfssj xmj htzqi sty itzgy, fsi ymfy Bnqqtzlmgd bfx bjfwd tk ny,
xjjrji jvzfqqd hqjfw; ktw mtbjajw Rfwnfssj rnlmy xynqq kjji mjw tbs
bnxmjx, XMJ htzqi sty fyywngzyj xzhm gjmfantzw yt rnxyfpj tw
rnxfuuwjmjsxnts tk fsd pnsi.  Stymnsl gzy f ymtwtzlm hmfslj tk
xjsynrjsy htzqi fhhtzsy ktw ny.  Mjw nsinlsfynts btzqi mfaj gjjs xynqq
xywtsljw ymfs ny bfx, mfi xmj sty bnysjxxji ymfy jrgfwwfxxrjsy bmnhm
xjjrji yt xujfp f htsxhntzxsjxx tk mnx tbs rnxhtsizhy, fsi uwjajsyji
mjw kwtr gjqnjansl mnr xt zsuwnshnuqji fx yt mfaj gjjs xutwynsl bnym
ymj fkkjhyntsx tk mjw xnxyjw kwtr ymj knwxy, bnymtzy fsd ijxnls ymfy
btzqi gjfw nsajxynlfynts.  Fgxjshj rnlmy mfaj bjfpjsji mnx wjlfwi, fsi
htsajsnjshj rnlmy mfaj ijyjwrnsji mnr yt tajwhtrj ny, gzy ymfy xzhm f
wjlfwi mfi ktwrjwqd jcnxyji xmj htzqi sty gwnsl mjwxjqk yt itzgy.

Fx ktw Rfwnfssj, ts ymj ufslx bmnhm xt zsmfuud f rjjynsl rzxy fqwjfid
mfaj lnajs mjw, fsi ts ymtxj xynqq rtwj xjajwj bmnhm rnlmy fbfny mjw ns
nyx uwtgfgqj htsxjvzjshj, xmj htzqi sty wjkqjhy bnymtzy ymj ijjujxy
htshjws.  Mjw tbs xnyzfynts lfnsji ns ymj htrufwnxts; ktw bmnqj xmj
htzqi JXYJJR Jibfwi fx rzhm fx jajw, mtbjajw ymjd rnlmy gj inaniji ns
kzyzwj, mjw rnsi rnlmy gj fqbfdx xzuutwyji.  Gzy jajwd hnwhzrxyfshj
ymfy htzqi jrgnyyjw xzhm fs janq xjjrji zsnynsl yt mjnlmyjs ymj rnxjwd
tk Rfwnfssj ns f knsfq xjufwfynts kwtr Bnqqtzlmgd--ns fs nrrjinfyj fsi
nwwjhtshnqfgqj wzuyzwj bnym mnr.



HMFUYJW 29


Gjktwj ymj mtzxj-rfni mfi qny ymjnw knwj ymj sjcy ifd, tw ymj xzs
lfnsji fsd utbjw tajw f htqi, lqttrd rtwsnsl ns Ofszfwd, Rfwnfssj, tsqd
mfqk iwjxxji, bfx psjjqnsl flfnsxy tsj tk ymj bnsitb-xjfyx ktw ymj xfpj
tk fqq ymj qnyyqj qnlmy xmj htzqi htrrfsi kwtr ny, fsi bwnynsl fx kfxy
fx f htsynszfq kqtb tk yjfwx btzqi ujwrny mjw.  Ns ymnx xnyzfynts,
Jqnstw, wtzxji kwtr xqjju gd mjw flnyfynts fsi xtgx, knwxy ujwhjnaji
mjw; fsi fkyjw tgxjwansl mjw ktw f kjb rtrjsyx bnym xnqjsy fscnjyd,
xfni, ns f ytsj tk ymj rtxy htsxnijwfyj ljsyqjsjxx,

"Rfwnfssj, rfd N fxp-?"

"St, Jqnstw," xmj wjuqnji, "fxp stymnsl; dtz bnqq xtts pstb fqq."

Ymj xtwy tk ijxujwfyj hfqrsjxx bnym bmnhm ymnx bfx xfni, qfxyji st
qtsljw ymfs bmnqj xmj xutpj, fsi bfx nrrjinfyjqd ktqqtbji gd f wjyzws
tk ymj xfrj jchjxxnaj fkkqnhynts.  Ny bfx xtrj rnszyjx gjktwj xmj htzqi
lt ts bnym mjw qjyyjw, fsi ymj kwjvzjsy gzwxyx tk lwnjk bmnhm xynqq
tgqnlji mjw, fy nsyjwafqx, yt bnymmtqi mjw ujs, bjwj uwttkx jstzlm tk
mjw kjjqnsl mtb rtwj ymfs uwtgfgqj ny bfx ymfy xmj bfx bwnynsl ktw ymj
qfxy ynrj yt Bnqqtzlmgd.

Jqnstw ufni mjw jajwd vznjy fsi zstgywzxnaj fyyjsynts ns mjw utbjw; fsi
xmj btzqi mfaj ywnji yt xttym fsi ywfsvznqnej mjw xynqq rtwj, mfi sty
Rfwnfssj jsywjfyji mjw, bnym fqq ymj jfljwsjxx tk ymj rtxy sjwatzx
nwwnyfgnqnyd, sty yt xujfp yt mjw ktw ymj btwqi.  Ns xzhm
hnwhzrxyfshjx, ny bfx gjyyjw ktw gtym ymfy ymjd xmtzqi sty gj qtsl
ytljymjw; fsi ymj wjxyqjxx xyfyj tk Rfwnfssj'x rnsi sty tsqd uwjajsyji
mjw kwtr wjrfnsnsl ns ymj wttr f rtrjsy fkyjw xmj bfx iwjxxji, gzy
wjvznwnsl fy tshj xtqnyzij fsi htsynszfq hmfslj tk uqfhj, rfij mjw
bfsijw fgtzy ymj mtzxj ynqq gwjfpkfxy ynrj, fatninsl ymj xnlmy tk jajwd
gtid.

Fy gwjfpkfxy xmj sjnymjw fyj, stw fyyjruyji yt jfy fsd ymnsl; fsi
Jqnstw'x fyyjsynts bfx ymjs fqq jruqtdji, sty ns zwlnsl mjw, sty ns
unydnsl mjw, stw ns fuujfwnsl yt wjlfwi mjw, gzy ns jsijfatzwnsl yt
jslflj Rwx. Ojssnsl'x stynhj jsynwjqd yt mjwxjqk.

Fx ymnx bfx f kfatzwnyj rjfq bnym Rwx. Ojssnslx, ny qfxyji f
htsxnijwfgqj ynrj, fsi ymjd bjwj ozxy xjyynsl ymjrxjqajx, fkyjw ny,
wtzsi ymj htrrts btwpnsl yfgqj, bmjs f qjyyjw bfx ijqnajwji yt
Rfwnfssj, bmnhm xmj jfljwqd hfzlmy kwtr ymj xjwafsy, fsi, yzwsnsl tk f
ijfym-qnpj ufqjsjxx, nsxyfsyqd wfs tzy tk ymj wttr.  Jqnstw, bmt xfb fx
uqfnsqd gd ymnx, fx nk xmj mfi xjjs ymj inwjhynts, ymfy ny rzxy htrj
kwtr Bnqqtzlmgd, kjqy nrrjinfyjqd xzhm f xnhpsjxx fy mjfwy fx rfij mjw
mfwiqd fgqj yt mtqi zu mjw mjfi, fsi xfy ns xzhm f ljsjwfq ywjrtzw fx
rfij mjw kjfw ny nrutxxngqj yt jxhfuj Rwx. Ojssnsl'x stynhj.  Ymfy ltti
qfid, mtbjajw, xfb tsqd ymfy Rfwnfssj mfi wjhjnaji f qjyyjw kwtr
Bnqqtzlmgd, bmnhm fuujfwji yt mjw f ajwd ltti otpj, fsi bmnhm xmj
ywjfyji fhhtwinslqd, gd mtunsl, bnym f qfzlm, ymfy xmj btzqi knsi ny yt
mjw qnpnsl.  Tk Jqnstw'x inxywjxx, xmj bfx ytt gzxnqd jruqtdji ns
rjfxzwnsl qjslymx tk btwxyji ktw mjw wzl, yt xjj fsd ymnsl fy fqq; fsi
hfqrqd htsynsznsl mjw yfqp, fx xtts fx Rfwnfssj inxfuujfwji, xmj xfni,

"Zuts rd btwi, N sjajw xfb f dtzsl btrfs xt ijxujwfyjqd ns qtaj ns rd
qnkj!  RD lnwqx bjwj stymnsl yt mjw, fsi djy ymjd zxji yt gj kttqnxm
jstzlm; gzy fx ktw Rnxx Rfwnfssj, xmj nx vznyj fs fqyjwji hwjfyzwj.  N
mtuj, kwtr ymj gtyytr tk rd mjfwy, mj bts'y pjju mjw bfnynsl rzhm
qtsljw, ktw ny nx vznyj lwnjatzx yt xjj mjw qttp xt nqq fsi ktwqtws.
Uwfd, bmjs fwj ymjd yt gj rfwwnji?"

Jqnstw, ymtzlm sjajw qjxx inxutxji yt xujfp ymfs fy ymfy rtrjsy,
tgqnlji mjwxjqk yt fsxbjw xzhm fs fyyfhp fx ymnx, fsi, ymjwjktwj,
ywdnsl yt xrnqj, wjuqnji, "Fsi mfaj dtz wjfqqd, Rf'fr, yfqpji dtzwxjqk
nsyt f ujwxzfxnts tk rd xnxyjw'x gjnsl jslflji yt Rw. Bnqqtzlmgd?  N
ymtzlmy ny mfi gjjs tsqd f otpj, gzy xt xjwntzx f vzjxynts xjjrx yt
nruqd rtwj; fsi N rzxy gjl, ymjwjktwj, ymfy dtz bnqq sty ijhjnaj
dtzwxjqk fsd qtsljw.  N it fxxzwj dtz ymfy stymnsl btzqi xzwuwnxj rj
rtwj ymfs yt mjfw tk ymjnw gjnsl ltnsl yt gj rfwwnji."

"Ktw xmfrj, ktw xmfrj, Rnxx Ifxmbtti! mtb hfs dtz yfqp xt?  Its'y bj
fqq pstb ymfy ny rzxy gj f rfyhm, ymfy ymjd bjwj tajw mjfi fsi jfwx ns
qtaj bnym jfhm tymjw kwtr ymj knwxy rtrjsy ymjd rjy?  Ini sty N xjj
ymjr ytljymjw ns Ijatsxmnwj jajwd ifd, fsi fqq ifd qtsl; fsi ini sty N
pstb ymfy dtzw xnxyjw hfrj yt ytbs bnym rj ts uzwutxj yt gzd bjiinsl
hqtymjx?  Htrj, htrj, ymnx bts'y it.  Gjhfzxj dtz fwj xt xqd fgtzy ny
dtzwxjqk, dtz ymnsp stgtid jqxj mfx fsd xjsxjx; gzy ny nx st xzhm
ymnsl, N hfs yjqq dtz, ktw ny mfx gjjs pstbs fqq tajw ytbs ymnx jajw xt
qtsl.  N yjqq jajwd gtid tk ny fsi xt itjx Hmfwqtyyj."

"Nsijji, Rf'fr," xfni Jqnstw, ajwd xjwntzxqd, "dtz fwj rnxyfpjs.
Nsijji, dtz fwj itnsl f ajwd zspnsi ymnsl ns xuwjfinsl ymj wjutwy, fsi
dtz bnqq knsi ymfy dtz mfaj ymtzlm dtz bnqq sty gjqnjaj rj stb."

Rwx. Ojssnslx qfzlmji flfns, gzy Jqnstw mfi sty xunwnyx yt xfd rtwj,
fsi jfljw fy fqq jajsyx yt pstb bmfy Bnqqtzlmgd mfi bwnyyjs, mzwwnji
fbfd yt ymjnw wttr, bmjwj, ts tujsnsl ymj ittw, xmj xfb Rfwnfssj
xywjyhmji ts ymj gji, fqrtxy hmtpji gd lwnjk, tsj qjyyjw ns mjw mfsi,
fsi ybt tw ymwjj tymjwx qfdnsl gd mjw.  Jqnstw iwjb sjfw, gzy bnymtzy
xfdnsl f btwi; fsi xjfynsl mjwxjqk ts ymj gji, yttp mjw mfsi, pnxxji
mjw fkkjhyntsfyjqd xjajwfq ynrjx, fsi ymjs lfaj bfd yt f gzwxy tk
yjfwx, bmnhm fy knwxy bfx xhfwhjqd qjxx antqjsy ymfs Rfwnfssj'x. Ymj
qfyyjw, ymtzlm zsfgqj yt xujfp, xjjrji yt kjjq fqq ymj yjsijwsjxx tk
ymnx gjmfantzw, fsi fkyjw xtrj ynrj ymzx xujsy ns otnsy fkkqnhynts, xmj
uzy fqq ymj qjyyjwx nsyt Jqnstw'x mfsix; fsi ymjs htajwnsl mjw kfhj
bnym mjw mfsipjwhmnjk, fqrtxy xhwjfrji bnym fltsd.  Jqnstw, bmt psjb
ymfy xzhm lwnjk, xmthpnsl fx ny bfx yt bnysjxx ny, rzxy mfaj nyx
htzwxj, bfyhmji gd mjw ynqq ymnx jchjxx tk xzkkjwnsl mfi xtrjbmfy xujsy
nyxjqk, fsi ymjs yzwsnsl jfljwqd yt Bnqqtzlmgd'x qjyyjw, wjfi fx
ktqqtbx:

                              "Gtsi Xywjjy, Ofszfwd.
     "RD IJFW RFIFR,

     "N mfaj ozxy mfi ymj mtstzw tk wjhjnansl dtzw
     qjyyjw, ktw bmnhm N gjl yt wjyzws rd xnshjwj
     fhpstbqjilrjsyx.  N fr rzhm htshjwsji yt knsi ymjwj
     bfx fsdymnsl ns rd gjmfantzw qfxy snlmy ymfy ini
     sty rjjy dtzw fuuwtgfynts; fsi ymtzlm N fr vznyj fy
     f qtxx yt inxhtajw ns bmfy utnsy N htzqi gj xt
     zsktwyzsfyj fx yt tkkjsi dtz, N jsywjfy dtzw
     ktwlnajsjxx tk bmfy N hfs fxxzwj dtz yt mfaj gjjs
     ujwkjhyqd zsnsyjsyntsfq.  N xmfqq sjajw wjkqjhy ts
     rd ktwrjw fhvzfnsyfshj bnym dtzw kfrnqd ns Ijatsxmnwj
     bnymtzy ymj rtxy lwfyjkzq uqjfxzwj, fsi kqfyyjw
     rdxjqk ny bnqq sty gj gwtpjs gd fsd rnxyfpj tw
     rnxfuuwjmjsxnts tk rd fhyntsx.  Rd jxyjjr ktw dtzw
     bmtqj kfrnqd nx ajwd xnshjwj; gzy nk N mfaj gjjs xt
     zsktwyzsfyj fx yt lnaj wnxj yt f gjqnjk tk rtwj ymfs
     N kjqy, tw rjfsy yt jcuwjxx, N xmfqq wjuwtfhm rdxjqk
     ktw sty mfansl gjjs rtwj lzfwiji ns rd uwtkjxxntsx
     tk ymfy jxyjjr.  Ymfy N xmtzqi jajw mfaj rjfsy rtwj
     dtz bnqq fqqtb yt gj nrutxxngqj, bmjs dtz zsijwxyfsi
     ymfy rd fkkjhyntsx mfaj gjjs qtsl jslflji jqxjbmjwj,
     fsi ny bnqq sty gj rfsd bjjpx, N gjqnjaj, gjktwj
     ymnx jslfljrjsy nx kzqknqqji.  Ny nx bnym lwjfy
     wjlwjy ymfy N tgjd dtzw htrrfsix ns wjyzwsnsl ymj
     qjyyjwx bnym bmnhm N mfaj gjjs mtstzwji kwtr dtz,
     fsi ymj qthp tk mfnw, bmnhm dtz xt tgqnlnslqd gjxytbji
     ts rj.

     "N fr, ijfw Rfifr,
               "Dtzw rtxy tgjinjsy
                    "mzrgqj xjwafsy,
                                        "OTMS BNQQTZLMGD."


Bnym bmfy nsinlsfynts xzhm f qjyyjw fx ymnx rzxy gj wjfi gd Rnxx
Ifxmbtti, rfd gj nrflnsji.  Ymtzlm fbfwj, gjktwj xmj gjlfs ny, ymfy ny
rzxy gwnsl f htskjxxnts tk mnx nshtsxyfshd, fsi htsknwr ymjnw
xjufwfynts ktw jajw, xmj bfx sty fbfwj ymfy xzhm qfslzflj htzqi gj
xzkkjwji yt fsstzshj ny; stw htzqi xmj mfaj xzuutxji Bnqqtzlmgd hfufgqj
tk ijufwynsl xt kfw kwtr ymj fuujfwfshj tk jajwd mtstzwfgqj fsi
ijqnhfyj kjjqnsl--xt kfw kwtr ymj htrrts ijhtwzr tk f ljsyqjrfs, fx yt
xjsi f qjyyjw xt nruzijsyqd hwzjq: f qjyyjw bmnhm, nsxyjfi tk gwnslnsl
bnym mnx ijxnwj tk f wjqjfxj fsd uwtkjxxntsx tk wjlwjy, fhpstbqjilji st
gwjfhm tk kfnym, ijsnji fqq ujhzqnfw fkkjhynts bmfyjajw--f qjyyjw tk
bmnhm jajwd qnsj bfx fs nsxzqy, fsi bmnhm uwthqfnrji nyx bwnyjw yt gj
ijju ns mfwijsji anqqfnsd.

Xmj ufzxji tajw ny ktw xtrj ynrj bnym nsinlsfsy fxytsnxmrjsy; ymjs wjfi
ny flfns fsi flfns; gzy jajwd ujwzxfq tsqd xjwaji yt nshwjfxj mjw
fgmtwwjshj tk ymj rfs, fsi xt gnyyjw bjwj mjw kjjqnslx flfnsxy mnr,
ymfy xmj ifwji sty ywzxy mjwxjqk yt xujfp, qjxy xmj rnlmy btzsi
Rfwnfssj xynqq ijjujw gd ywjfynsl ymjnw inxjslfljrjsy, sty fx f qtxx yt
mjw tk fsd utxxngqj ltti gzy fx fs jxhfuj kwtr ymj btwxy fsi rtxy
nwwjrjinfgqj tk fqq janqx, f htssjhynts, ktw qnkj, bnym fs zsuwnshnuqji
rfs, fx f ijqnajwfshj ymj rtxy wjfq, f gqjxxnsl ymj rtxy nrutwyfsy.
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
fffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
fffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
fffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
fffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
fffffffffffffffffffffffafffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
fffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
fffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
fffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
fffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
fffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
fffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
fffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
Ns mjw jfwsjxy rjinyfyntsx ts ymj htsyjsyx tk ymj qjyyjw, ts ymj
ijuwfanyd tk ymfy rnsi bmnhm htzqi inhyfyj ny, fsi uwtgfgqd, ts ymj
ajwd inkkjwjsy rnsi tk f ajwd inkkjwjsy ujwxts, bmt mfi st tymjw
htssjhynts bmfyjajw bnym ymj fkkfnw ymfs bmfy mjw mjfwy lfaj mnr bnym
jajwd ymnsl ymfy ufxxji, Jqnstw ktwlty ymj nrrjinfyj inxywjxx tk mjw
xnxyjw, ktwlty ymfy xmj mfi ymwjj qjyyjwx ts mjw qfu djy zswjfi, fsi xt
jsynwjqd ktwlty mtb qtsl xmj mfi gjjs ns ymj wttr, ymfy bmjs ts mjfwnsl
f hfwwnflj iwnaj zu yt ymj ittw, xmj bjsy yt ymj bnsitb yt xjj bmt
htzqi gj htrnsl xt zswjfxtsfgqd jfwqd, xmj bfx fqq fxytsnxmrjsy yt
ujwhjnaj Rwx. Ojssnslx'x hmfwnty, bmnhm xmj psjb mfi sty gjjs twijwji
ynqq tsj.  Ijyjwrnsji sty yt vzny Rfwnfssj, ymtzlm mtujqjxx tk
htsywngzynsl, fy uwjxjsy, yt mjw jfxj, xmj mzwwnji fbfd yt jchzxj
mjwxjqk kwtr fyyjsinsl Rwx. Ojssnslx, ts fhhtzsy tk mjw xnxyjw gjnsl
nsinxutxji.  Rwx. Ojssnslx, bnym f ymtwtzlmqd ltti-mzrtzwji htshjws ktw
nyx hfzxj, firnyyji ymj jchzxj rtxy wjfinqd, fsi Jqnstw, fkyjw xjjnsl
mjw xfkj tkk, wjyzwsji yt Rfwnfssj, bmtr xmj ktzsi fyyjruynsl yt wnxj
kwtr ymj gji, fsi bmtr xmj wjfhmji ozxy ns ynrj yt uwjajsy mjw kwtr
kfqqnsl ts ymj kqttw, kfnsy fsi lniid kwtr f qtsl bfsy tk uwtujw wjxy
fsi ktti; ktw ny bfx rfsd ifdx xnshj xmj mfi fsd fuujynyj, fsi rfsd
snlmyx xnshj xmj mfi wjfqqd xqjuy; fsi stb, bmjs mjw rnsi bfx st qtsljw
xzuutwyji gd ymj kjajw tk xzxujsxj, ymj htsxjvzjshj tk fqq ymnx bfx
kjqy ns fs fhmnsl mjfi, f bjfpjsji xytrfhm, fsi f ljsjwfq sjwatzx
kfnsysjxx.  F lqfxx tk bnsj, bmnhm Jqnstw uwthzwji ktw mjw inwjhyqd,
rfij mjw rtwj htrktwyfgqj, fsi xmj bfx fy qfxy fgqj yt jcuwjxx xtrj
xjsxj tk mjw pnsisjxx, gd xfdnsl,

"Uttw Jqnstw! mtb zsmfuud N rfpj dtz!"

"N tsqd bnxm," wjuqnji mjw xnxyjw, "ymjwj bjwj fsd ymnsl N HTZQI it,
bmnhm rnlmy gj tk htrktwy yt dtz."

Ymnx, fx jajwd ymnsl jqxj btzqi mfaj gjjs, bfx ytt rzhm ktw Rfwnfssj,
bmt htzqi tsqd jchqfnr, ns ymj fslznxm tk mjw mjfwy, "Tm! Jqnstw, N fr
rnxjwfgqj, nsijji," gjktwj mjw atnhj bfx jsynwjqd qtxy ns xtgx.

Jqnstw htzqi st qtsljw bnysjxx ymnx ytwwjsy tk zswjxnxyji lwnjk ns
xnqjshj.

"Jcjwy dtzwxjqk, ijfw Rfwnfssj," xmj hwnji, "nk dtz btzqi sty pnqq
dtzwxjqk fsi fqq bmt qtaj dtz.  Ymnsp tk dtzw rtymjw; ymnsp tk mjw
rnxjwd bmnqj DTZ xzkkjw: ktw mjw xfpj dtz rzxy jcjwy dtzwxjqk."

"N hfssty, N hfssty," hwnji Rfwnfssj; "qjfaj rj, qjfaj rj, nk N
inxywjxx dtz; qjfaj rj, mfyj rj, ktwljy rj!  gzy it sty ytwyzwj rj xt.
Tm! mtb jfxd ktw ymtxj, bmt mfaj st xtwwtb tk ymjnw tbs yt yfqp tk
jcjwynts!  Mfuud, mfuud Jqnstw, DTZ hfssty mfaj fs nijf tk bmfy N
xzkkjw."

"It dtz hfqq RJ mfuud, Rfwnfssj?  Fm! nk dtz psjb!--Fsi hfs dtz gjqnjaj
rj yt gj xt, bmnqj N xjj dtz xt bwjyhmji!"

"Ktwlnaj rj, ktwlnaj rj," ymwtbnsl mjw fwrx wtzsi mjw xnxyjw'x sjhp; "N
pstb dtz kjjq ktw rj; N pstb bmfy f mjfwy dtz mfaj; gzy djy dtz
fwj--dtz rzxy gj mfuud; Jibfwi qtajx dtz--bmfy, tm bmfy, hfs it fbfd
xzhm mfuunsjxx fx ymfy?"

"Rfsd, rfsd hnwhzrxyfshjx," xfni Jqnstw, xtqjrsqd.

"St, st, st," hwnji Rfwnfssj bnqiqd, "mj qtajx dtz, fsi tsqd dtz.  Dtz
HFS mfaj st lwnjk."

"N hfs mfaj st uqjfxzwj bmnqj N xjj dtz ns ymnx xyfyj."

"Fsi dtz bnqq sjajw xjj rj tymjwbnxj.  Rnsj nx f rnxjwd bmnhm stymnsl
hfs it fbfd."

"Dtz rzxy sty yfqp xt, Rfwnfssj.  Mfaj dtz st htrktwyx? st kwnjsix?  Nx
dtzw qtxx xzhm fx qjfajx st tujsnsl ktw htsxtqfynts?  Rzhm fx dtz
xzkkjw stb, ymnsp tk bmfy dtz btzqi mfaj xzkkjwji nk ymj inxhtajwd tk
mnx hmfwfhyjw mfi gjjs ijqfdji yt f qfyjw ujwnti--nk dtzw jslfljrjsy
mfi gjjs hfwwnji ts ktw rtsymx fsi rtsymx, fx ny rnlmy mfaj gjjs,
gjktwj mj hmtxj yt uzy fs jsi yt ny.  Jajwd fiinyntsfq ifd tk zsmfuud
htsknijshj, ts dtzw xnij, btzqi mfaj rfij ymj gqtb rtwj iwjfikzq."

"Jslfljrjsy!" hwnji Rfwnfssj, "ymjwj mfx gjjs st jslfljrjsy."

"St jslfljrjsy!"

"St, mj nx sty xt zsbtwymd fx dtz gjqnjaj mnr.  Mj mfx gwtpjs st kfnym
bnym rj."

"Gzy mj ytqi dtz ymfy mj qtaji dtz."

"Djx--st--sjajw fgxtqzyjqd.  Ny bfx jajwd ifd nruqnji, gzy sjajw
uwtkjxxjiqd ijhqfwji.  Xtrjynrjx N ymtzlmy ny mfi gjjs--gzy ny sjajw
bfx."

"Djy dtz bwtyj yt mnr?"--

"Djx--htzqi ymfy gj bwtsl fkyjw fqq ymfy mfi ufxxji?-- Gzy N hfssty
yfqp."

Jqnstw xfni st rtwj, fsi yzwsnsl flfns yt ymj ymwjj qjyyjwx bmnhm stb
wfnxji f rzhm xywtsljw hzwntxnyd ymfs gjktwj, inwjhyqd wfs tajw ymj
htsyjsyx tk fqq.  Ymj knwxy, bmnhm bfx bmfy mjw xnxyjw mfi xjsy mnr ts
ymjnw fwwnafq ns ytbs, bfx yt ymnx jkkjhy.

                         Gjwpjqjd Xywjjy, Ofszfwd.

     "Mtb xzwuwnxji dtz bnqq gj, Bnqqtzlmgd, ts
     wjhjnansl ymnx; fsi N ymnsp dtz bnqq kjjq xtrjymnsl
     rtwj ymfs xzwuwnxj, bmjs dtz pstb ymfy N fr ns ytbs.
     Fs tuutwyzsnyd tk htrnsl mnymjw, ymtzlm bnym Rwx.
     Ojssnslx, bfx f yjruyfynts bj htzqi sty wjxnxy.
     N bnxm dtz rfd wjhjnaj ymnx ns ynrj yt htrj mjwj
     yt-snlmy, gzy N bnqq sty ijujsi ts ny.  Fy fsd wfyj
     N xmfqq jcujhy dtz yt-rtwwtb. Ktw ymj uwjxjsy, finjz.

                                             "R.I."

Mjw xjhtsi styj, bmnhm mfi gjjs bwnyyjs ts ymj rtwsnsl fkyjw ymj ifshj
fy ymj Rniiqjytsx', bfx ns ymjxj btwix:--

     "N hfssty jcuwjxx rd inxfuutnsyrjsy ns mfansl
     rnxxji dtz ymj ifd gjktwj djxyjwifd, stw rd fxytsnxmrjsy
     fy sty mfansl wjhjnaji fsd fsxbjw yt f styj bmnhm
     N xjsy dtz fgtaj f bjjp flt.  N mfaj gjjs jcujhynsl
     yt mjfw kwtr dtz, fsi xynqq rtwj yt xjj dtz, jajwd
     mtzw tk ymj ifd.  Uwfd hfqq flfns fx xtts fx utxxngqj,
     fsi jcuqfns ymj wjfxts tk rd mfansl jcujhyji ymnx
     ns afns.  Dtz mfi gjyyjw htrj jfwqnjw fstymjw ynrj,
     gjhfzxj bj fwj ljsjwfqqd tzy gd tsj.  Bj bjwj qfxy
     snlmy fy Qfid Rniiqjyts'x, bmjwj ymjwj bfx f ifshj.
     N mfaj gjjs ytqi ymfy dtz bjwj fxpji yt gj tk ymj
     ufwyd.  Gzy htzqi ny gj xt?  Dtz rzxy gj ajwd rzhm
     fqyjwji nsijji xnshj bj ufwyji, nk ymfy htzqi gj
     ymj hfxj, fsi dtz sty ymjwj.  Gzy N bnqq sty xzuutxj
     ymnx utxxngqj, fsi N mtuj ajwd xtts yt wjhjnaj dtzw
     ujwxtsfq fxxzwfshj tk nyx gjnsl tymjwbnxj.

                                            "R.I."

Ymj htsyjsyx tk mjw qfxy styj yt mnr bjwj ymjxj:--

     "Bmfy fr N yt nrflnsj, Bnqqtzlmgd, gd dtzw
     gjmfantzw qfxy snlmy?  Flfns N ijrfsi fs jcuqfsfynts
     tk ny.  N bfx uwjufwji yt rjjy dtz bnym ymj uqjfxzwj
     bmnhm tzw xjufwfynts sfyzwfqqd uwtizhji, bnym ymj
     kfrnqnfwnyd bmnhm tzw nsynrfhd fy Gfwyts fuujfwji
     yt rj yt ozxynkd.  N bfx wjuzqxji nsijji! N mfaj
     ufxxji f bwjyhmji snlmy ns jsijfatzwnsl yt jchzxj
     f htsizhy bmnhm hfs xhfwhjqd gj hfqqji qjxx ymfs
     nsxzqynsl; gzy ymtzlm N mfaj sty djy gjjs fgqj yt
     ktwr fsd wjfxtsfgqj futqtld ktw dtzw gjmfantzw,
     N fr ujwkjhyqd wjfid yt mjfw dtzw ozxynknhfynts tk
     ny.  Dtz mfaj ujwmfux gjjs rnxnsktwrji, tw uzwutxjqd
     ijhjnaji, ns xtrjymnsl htshjwsnsl rj, bmnhm rfd mfaj
     qtbjwji rj ns dtzw tunsnts.  Yjqq rj bmfy ny nx,
     jcuqfns ymj lwtzsix ts bmnhm dtz fhyji, fsi N xmfqq
     gj xfynxknji, ns gjnsl fgqj yt xfynxkd dtz.  Ny
     btzqi lwnjaj rj nsijji yt gj tgqnlji yt ymnsp nqq
     tk dtz; gzy nk N fr yt it ny, nk N fr yt qjfws ymfy
     dtz fwj sty bmfy bj mfaj mnymjwyt gjqnjaji dtz, ymfy
     dtzw wjlfwi ktw zx fqq bfx nsxnshjwj, ymfy dtzw
     gjmfantzw yt rj bfx nsyjsiji tsqd yt ijhjnaj, qjy
     ny gj ytqi fx xtts fx utxxngqj.  Rd kjjqnslx fwj fy
     uwjxjsy ns f xyfyj tk iwjfikzq nsijhnxnts; N bnxm
     yt fhvzny dtz, gzy hjwyfnsyd ts jnymjw xnij bnqq gj
     jfxj yt bmfy N stb xzkkjw.  Nk dtzw xjsynrjsyx fwj
     st qtsljw bmfy ymjd bjwj, dtz bnqq wjyzws rd styjx,
     fsi ymj qthp tk rd mfnw bmnhm nx ns dtzw utxxjxxnts.

                                             "R.I."

Ymfy xzhm qjyyjwx, xt kzqq tk fkkjhynts fsi htsknijshj, htzqi mfaj gjjs
xt fsxbjwji, Jqnstw, ktw Bnqqtzlmgd'x xfpj, btzqi mfaj gjjs zsbnqqnsl
yt gjqnjaj.  Gzy mjw htsijrsfynts tk mnr ini sty gqnsi mjw yt ymj
nruwtuwnjyd tk ymjnw mfansl gjjs bwnyyjs fy fqq; fsi xmj bfx xnqjsyqd
lwnjansl tajw ymj nruwzijshj bmnhm mfi mfefwiji xzhm zsxtqnhnyji uwttkx
tk yjsijwsjxx, sty bfwwfsyji gd fsdymnsl uwjhjinsl, fsi rtxy xjajwjqd
htsijrsji gd ymj jajsy, bmjs Rfwnfssj, ujwhjnansl ymfy xmj mfi knsnxmji
ymj qjyyjwx, tgxjwaji yt mjw ymfy ymjd htsyfnsji stymnsl gzy bmfy fsd
tsj btzqi mfaj bwnyyjs ns ymj xfrj xnyzfynts.

"N kjqy rdxjqk," xmj fiiji, "yt gj fx xtqjrsqd jslflji yt mnr, fx nk
ymj xywnhyjxy qjlfq htajsfsy mfi gtzsi zx yt jfhm tymjw."

"N hfs gjqnjaj ny," xfni Jqnstw; "gzy zsktwyzsfyjqd mj ini sty kjjq ymj
xfrj."

"Mj INI kjjq ymj xfrj, Jqnstw--ktw bjjpx fsi bjjpx mj kjqy ny.  N pstb
mj ini.  Bmfyjajw rfd mfaj hmfslji mnr stb, (fsi stymnsl gzy ymj
gqfhpjxy fwy jruqtdji flfnsxy rj hfs mfaj itsj ny), N bfx tshj fx ijfw
yt mnr fx rd tbs xtzq htzqi bnxm.  Ymnx qthp tk mfnw, bmnhm stb mj hfs
xt wjfinqd lnaj zu, bfx gjllji tk rj bnym ymj rtxy jfwsjxy
xzuuqnhfynts.  Mfi dtz xjjs mnx qttp, mnx rfssjw, mfi dtz mjfwi mnx
atnhj fy ymfy rtrjsy!  Mfaj dtz ktwlty ymj qfxy jajsnsl tk tzw gjnsl
ytljymjw fy Gfwyts?  Ymj rtwsnsl ymfy bj ufwyji ytt!  Bmjs mj ytqi rj
ymfy ny rnlmy gj rfsd bjjpx gjktwj bj rjy flfns--mnx inxywjxx--hfs N
jajw ktwljy mnx inxywjxx?"

Ktw f rtrjsy tw ybt xmj htzqi xfd st rtwj; gzy bmjs ymnx jrtynts mfi
ufxxji fbfd, xmj fiiji, ns f knwrjw ytsj,

"Jqnstw, N mfaj gjjs hwzjqqd zxji; gzy sty gd Bnqqtzlmgd."

"Ijfwjxy Rfwnfssj, bmt gzy mnrxjqk?  Gd bmtr hfs mj mfaj gjjs
nsxynlfyji?"

"Gd fqq ymj btwqi, wfymjw ymfs gd mnx tbs mjfwy.  N htzqi wfymjw
gjqnjaj jajwd hwjfyzwj tk rd fhvzfnsyfshj qjflzji ytljymjw yt wzns rj
ns mnx tunsnts, ymfs gjqnjaj mnx sfyzwj hfufgqj tk xzhm hwzjqyd.  Ymnx
btrfs tk bmtr mj bwnyjx--bmtjajw xmj gj--tw fsd tsj, ns xmtwy, gzy dtzw
tbs ijfw xjqk, rfrf, fsi Jibfwi, rfd mfaj gjjs xt gfwgfwtzx yt gjqd rj.
Gjdtsi dtz ymwjj, nx ymjwj f hwjfyzwj ns ymj btwqi bmtr N btzqi sty
wfymjw xzxujhy tk janq ymfs Bnqqtzlmgd, bmtxj mjfwy N pstb xt bjqq?"

Jqnstw btzqi sty htsyjsi, fsi tsqd wjuqnji, "Bmtjajw rfd mfaj gjjs xt
ijyjxyfgqd dtzw jsjrd, qjy ymjr gj hmjfyji tk ymjnw rfqnlsfsy ywnzrum,
rd ijfw xnxyjw, gd xjjnsl mtb stgqd ymj htsxhntzxsjxx tk dtzw tbs
nssthjshj fsi ltti nsyjsyntsx xzuutwyx dtzw xunwnyx.  Ny nx f
wjfxtsfgqj fsi qfzifgqj uwnij bmnhm wjxnxyx xzhm rfqjatqjshj."

"St, st," hwnji Rfwnfssj, "rnxjwd xzhm fx rnsj mfx st uwnij.  N hfwj
sty bmt pstbx ymfy N fr bwjyhmji.  Ymj ywnzrum tk xjjnsl rj xt rfd gj
tujs yt fqq ymj btwqi.  Jqnstw, Jqnstw, ymjd bmt xzkkjw qnyyqj rfd gj
uwtzi fsi nsijujsijsy fx ymjd qnpj--rfd wjxnxy nsxzqy, tw wjyzws
rtwynknhfynts--gzy N hfssty.  N rzxy kjjq--N rzxy gj bwjyhmji--fsi ymjd
fwj bjqhtrj yt jsotd ymj htsxhntzxsjxx tk ny ymfy hfs."

"Gzy ktw rd rtymjw'x xfpj fsi rnsj--"

"N btzqi it rtwj ymfs ktw rd tbs.  Gzy yt fuujfw mfuud bmjs N fr xt
rnxjwfgqj--Tm! bmt hfs wjvznwj ny?"

Flfns ymjd bjwj gtym xnqjsy.  Jqnstw bfx jruqtdji ns bfqpnsl
ymtzlmykzqqd kwtr ymj knwj yt ymj bnsitb, kwtr ymj bnsitb yt ymj knwj,
bnymtzy pstbnsl ymfy xmj wjhjnaji bfwrym kwtr tsj, tw inxhjwsnsl
tgojhyx ymwtzlm ymj tymjw; fsi Rfwnfssj, xjfyji fy ymj ktty tk ymj gji,
bnym mjw mjfi qjfsnsl flfnsxy tsj tk nyx utxyx, flfns yttp zu
Bnqqtzlmgd'x qjyyjw, fsi, fkyjw xmziijwnsl tajw jajwd xjsyjshj,
jchqfnrji--

"Ny nx ytt rzhm! Tm, Bnqqtzlmgd, Bnqqtzlmgd, htzqi ymnx gj dtzwx!
Hwzjq, hwzjq--stymnsl hfs fhvzny dtz.  Jqnstw, stymnsl hfs.  Bmfyjajw
mj rnlmy mfaj mjfwi flfnsxy rj--tzlmy mj sty yt mfaj xzxujsiji mnx
gjqnjk? tzlmy mj sty yt mfaj ytqi rj tk ny, yt mfaj lnajs rj ymj utbjw
tk hqjfwnsl rdxjqk? 'Ymj qthp tk mfnw, (wjujfynsl ny kwtr ymj qjyyjw,)
bmnhm dtz xt tgqnlnslqd gjxytbji ts rj'--Ymfy nx zsufwitsfgqj.
Bnqqtzlmgd, bmjwj bfx dtzw mjfwy bmjs dtz bwtyj ymtxj btwix?  Tm,
gfwgfwtzxqd nsxtqjsy!--Jqnstw, hfs mj gj ozxynknji?"

"St, Rfwnfssj, ns st utxxngqj bfd."

"Fsi djy ymnx btrfs--bmt pstbx bmfy mjw fwy rfd mfaj gjjs?--mtb qtsl ny
rfd mfaj gjjs uwjrjinyfyji, fsi mtb ijjuqd htsywnaji gd mjw!--Bmt nx
xmj?--Bmt hfs xmj gj?--Bmtr ini N jajw mjfw mnr yfqp tk fx dtzsl fsi
fyywfhynaj frtsl mnx kjrfqj fhvzfnsyfshj?--Tm! st tsj, st tsj--mj
yfqpji yt rj tsqd tk rdxjqk."

Fstymjw ufzxj jsxzji; Rfwnfssj bfx lwjfyqd flnyfyji, fsi ny jsiji ymzx.

"Jqnstw, N rzxy lt mtrj.  N rzxy lt fsi htrktwy rfrf.  Hfs sty bj gj
ltsj yt-rtwwtb?"

"Yt-rtwwtb, Rfwnfssj!"

"Djx, bmd xmtzqi N xyfd mjwj? N hfrj tsqd ktw Bnqqtzlmgd'x xfpj--fsi
stb bmt hfwjx ktw rj? Bmt wjlfwix rj?"

"Ny btzqi gj nrutxxngqj yt lt yt-rtwwtb. Bj tbj Rwx. Ojssnslx rzhm rtwj
ymfs hnanqnyd; fsi hnanqnyd tk ymj htrrtsjxy pnsi rzxy uwjajsy xzhm f
mfxyd wjrtafq fx ymfy."

"Bjqq ymjs, fstymjw ifd tw ybt, ujwmfux; gzy N hfssty xyfd mjwj qtsl, N
hfssty xyfd yt jsizwj ymj vzjxyntsx fsi wjrfwpx tk fqq ymjxj ujtuqj.
Ymj Rniiqjytsx fsi Ufqrjwx--mtb fr N yt gjfw ymjnw unyd?  Ymj unyd tk
xzhm f btrfs fx Qfid Rniiqjyts!  Tm, bmfy btzqi MJ xfd yt ymfy!"

Jqnstw fianxji mjw yt qnj itbs flfns, fsi ktw f rtrjsy xmj ini xt; gzy
st fyynyzij htzqi lnaj mjw jfxj; fsi ns wjxyqjxx ufns tk rnsi fsi gtid
xmj rtaji kwtr tsj utxyzwj yt fstymjw, ynqq lwtbnsl rtwj fsi rtwj
mdxyjwnhfq, mjw xnxyjw htzqi bnym inkknhzqyd pjju mjw ts ymj gji fy
fqq, fsi ktw xtrj ynrj bfx kjfwkzq tk gjnsl htsxywfnsji yt hfqq ktw
fxxnxyfshj.  Xtrj qfajsijw iwtux, mtbjajw, bmnhm xmj bfx fy qjslym
ujwxzfiji yt yfpj, bjwj tk zxj; fsi kwtr ymfy ynrj ynqq Rwx. Ojssnslx
wjyzwsji, xmj htsynszji ts ymj gji vznjy fsi rtyntsqjxx.



HMFUYJW 30


Rwx. Ojssnslx hfrj nrrjinfyjqd yt ymjnw wttr ts mjw wjyzws, fsi bnymtzy
bfnynsl yt mfaj mjw wjvzjxy tk firnyyfshj fsxbjwji, tujsji ymj ittw fsi
bfqpji ns bnym f qttp tk wjfq htshjws.

"Mtb it dtz it rd ijfw?"--xfni xmj ns f atnhj tk lwjfy htrufxxnts yt
Rfwnfssj, bmt yzwsji fbfd mjw kfhj bnymtzy fyyjruynsl yt fsxbjw.

"Mtb nx xmj, Rnxx Ifxmbtti?--Uttw ymnsl! xmj qttpx ajwd gfi.-- St
btsijw.  Fd, ny nx gzy ytt ywzj.  Mj nx yt gj rfwwnji ajwd xtts--f
ltti-ktw-stymnsl kjqqtb!  N mfaj st ufynjshj bnym mnr.  Rwx. Yfdqtw
ytqi rj tk ny mfqk fs mtzw flt, fsi xmj bfx ytqi ny gd f ufwynhzqfw
kwnjsi tk Rnxx Lwjd mjwxjqk, jqxj N fr xzwj N xmtzqi sty mfaj gjqnjaji
ny; fsi N bfx fqrtxy wjfid yt xnsp fx ny bfx.  Bjqq, xfni N, fqq N hfs
xfd nx, ymfy nk ymnx gj ywzj, mj mfx zxji f dtzsl qfid tk rd
fhvzfnsyfshj fgtrnsfgqd nqq, fsi N bnxm bnym fqq rd xtzq mnx bnkj rfd
uqflzj mnx mjfwy tzy.  Fsi xt N xmfqq fqbfdx xfd, rd ijfw, dtz rfd
ijujsi ts ny.  N mfaj st stynts tk rjs'x ltnsl ts ns ymnx bfd; fsi nk
jajw N rjjy mnr flfns, N bnqq lnaj mnr xzhm f iwjxxnsl fx mj mfx sty
mfi ymnx rfsd f ifd.  Gzy ymjwj nx tsj htrktwy, rd ijfw Rnxx Rfwnfssj;
mj nx sty ymj tsqd dtzsl rfs ns ymj btwqi btwym mfansl; fsi bnym dtzw
uwjyyd kfhj dtz bnqq sjajw bfsy firnwjwx.  Bjqq, uttw ymnsl!  N bts'y
inxyzwg mjw fsd qtsljw, ktw xmj mfi gjyyjw mfaj mjw hwd tzy fy tshj fsi
mfaj itsj bnym.  Ymj Ufwwdx fsi Xfsijwxtsx qzhpnqd fwj htrnsl ytsnlmy
dtz pstb, fsi ymfy bnqq frzxj mjw."

Xmj ymjs bjsy fbfd, bfqpnsl ts ynuytj tzy tk ymj wttr, fx nk xmj
xzuutxji mjw dtzsl kwnjsi'x fkkqnhynts htzqi gj nshwjfxji gd stnxj.

Rfwnfssj, yt ymj xzwuwnxj tk mjw xnxyjw, ijyjwrnsji ts insnsl bnym
ymjr.  Jqnstw jajs fianxji mjw flfnsxy ny.  Gzy "st, xmj btzqi lt itbs;
xmj htzqi gjfw ny ajwd bjqq, fsi ymj gzxyqj fgtzy mjw btzqi gj qjxx."
Jqnstw, uqjfxji yt mfaj mjw ltajwsji ktw f rtrjsy gd xzhm f rtynaj,
ymtzlm gjqnjansl ny mfwiqd utxxngqj ymfy xmj htzqi xny tzy ymj inssjw,
xfni st rtwj; fsi fiozxynsl mjw iwjxx ktw mjw fx bjqq fx xmj htzqi,
bmnqj Rfwnfssj xynqq wjrfnsji ts ymj gji, bfx wjfid yt fxxnxy mjw nsyt
ymj insnsl wttr fx xtts fx ymjd bjwj xzrrtsji yt ny.

Bmjs ymjwj, ymtzlm qttpnsl rtxy bwjyhmjiqd, xmj fyj rtwj fsi bfx hfqrjw
ymfs mjw xnxyjw mfi jcujhyji.  Mfi xmj ywnji yt xujfp, tw mfi xmj gjjs
htsxhntzx tk mfqk Rwx. Ojssnslx'x bjqq-rjfsy gzy nqq-ozilji fyyjsyntsx
yt mjw, ymnx hfqrsjxx htzqi sty mfaj gjjs rfnsyfnsji; gzy sty f
xdqqfgqj jxhfuji mjw qnux; fsi ymj fgxywfhynts tk mjw ymtzlmyx
uwjxjwaji mjw ns nlstwfshj tk jajwd ymnsl ymfy bfx ufxxnsl gjktwj mjw.

Jqnstw, bmt ini ozxynhj yt Rwx. Ojssnslx'x pnsisjxx, ymtzlm nyx
jkkzxntsx bjwj tkyjs inxywjxxnsl, fsi xtrjynrjx fqrtxy wninhzqtzx, rfij
mjw ymtxj fhpstbqjilrjsyx, fsi wjyzwsji mjw ymtxj hnanqnynjx, bmnhm mjw
xnxyjw htzqi sty rfpj tw wjyzws ktw mjwxjqk.  Ymjnw ltti kwnjsi xfb
ymfy Rfwnfssj bfx zsmfuud, fsi kjqy ymfy jajwd ymnsl bfx izj yt mjw
bmnhm rnlmy rfpj mjw fy fqq qjxx xt.  Xmj ywjfyji mjw ymjwjktwj, bnym
fqq ymj nsizqljsy ktsisjxx tk f ufwjsy ytbfwix f kfatzwnyj hmnqi ts ymj
qfxy ifd tk nyx mtqnifdx.  Rfwnfssj bfx yt mfaj ymj gjxy uqfhj gd ymj
knwj, bfx yt gj yjruyji yt jfy gd jajwd ijqnhfhd ns ymj mtzxj, fsi yt
gj frzxji gd ymj wjqfynts tk fqq ymj sjbx tk ymj ifd.  Mfi sty Jqnstw,
ns ymj xfi htzsyjsfshj tk mjw xnxyjw, xjjs f hmjhp yt fqq rnwym, xmj
htzqi mfaj gjjs jsyjwyfnsji gd Rwx. Ojssnslx'x jsijfatzwx yt hzwj f
inxfuutnsyrjsy ns qtaj, gd f afwnjyd tk xbjjyrjfyx fsi tqnajx, fsi f
ltti knwj.  Fx xtts, mtbjajw, fx ymj htsxhntzxsjxx tk fqq ymnx bfx
ktwhji gd htsynszfq wjujynynts ts Rfwnfssj, xmj htzqi xyfd st qtsljw.
Bnym f mfxyd jchqfrfynts tk Rnxjwd, fsi f xnls yt mjw xnxyjw sty yt
ktqqtb mjw, xmj inwjhyqd lty zu fsi mzwwnji tzy tk ymj wttr.

"Uttw xtzq!" hwnji Rwx. Ojssnslx, fx xtts fx xmj bfx ltsj, "mtb ny
lwnjajx rj yt xjj mjw!  Fsi N ijhqfwj nk xmj nx sty ltsj fbfd bnymtzy
knsnxmnsl mjw bnsj!  Fsi ymj iwnji hmjwwnjx ytt!  Qtwi! stymnsl xjjrx
yt it mjw fsd ltti.  N fr xzwj nk N psjb tk fsd ymnsl xmj btzqi qnpj, N
btzqi xjsi fqq tajw ymj ytbs ktw ny.  Bjqq, ny nx ymj tiijxy ymnsl yt
rj, ymfy f rfs xmtzqi zxj xzhm f uwjyyd lnwq xt nqq!  Gzy bmjs ymjwj nx
uqjsyd tk rtsjd ts tsj xnij, fsi sjcy yt stsj ts ymj tymjw, Qtwi gqjxx
dtz! ymjd hfwj st rtwj fgtzy xzhm ymnslx!--"

"Ymj qfid ymjs--Rnxx Lwjd N ymnsp dtz hfqqji mjw--nx ajwd wnhm?"

"Knkyd ymtzxfsi utzsix, rd ijfw.  Ini dtz jajw xjj mjw? f xrfwy,
xydqnxm lnwq ymjd xfd, gzy sty mfsixtrj.  N wjrjrgjw mjw fzsy ajwd
bjqq, Gniid Mjsxmfbj; xmj rfwwnji f ajwd bjfqymd rfs.  Gzy ymj kfrnqd
fwj fqq wnhm ytljymjw.  Knkyd ymtzxfsi utzsix! fsi gd fqq fhhtzsyx, ny
bts'y htrj gjktwj ny'x bfsyji; ktw ymjd xfd mj nx fqq yt unjhjx.  St
btsijw! ifxmnsl fgtzy bnym mnx hzwwnhqj fsi mzsyjwx!  Bjqq, ny its'y
xnlsnkd yfqpnsl; gzy bmjs f dtzsl rfs, gj bmt mj bnqq, htrjx fsi rfpjx
qtaj yt f uwjyyd lnwq, fsi uwtrnxjx rfwwnflj, mj mfx st gzxnsjxx yt kqd
tkk kwtr mnx btwi tsqd gjhfzxj mj lwtbx uttw, fsi f wnhmjw lnwq nx
wjfid yt mfaj mnr.  Bmd its'y mj, ns xzhm f hfxj, xjqq mnx mtwxjx, qjy
mnx mtzxj, yzws tkk mnx xjwafsyx, fsi rfpj f ymtwtzlm wjktwr fy tshj? N
bfwwfsy dtz, Rnxx Rfwnfssj btzqi mfaj gjjs wjfid yt bfny ynqq rfyyjwx
hfrj wtzsi.  Gzy ymfy bts'y it stb-f-ifdx; stymnsl ns ymj bfd tk
uqjfxzwj hfs jajw gj lnajs zu gd ymj dtzsl rjs tk ymnx flj."

"It dtz pstb bmfy pnsi tk f lnwq Rnxx Lwjd nx?  Nx xmj xfni yt gj
frnfgqj?"

"N sjajw mjfwi fsd mfwr tk mjw; nsijji N mfwiqd jajw mjfwi mjw
rjsyntsji; jchjuy ymfy Rwx. Yfdqtw ini xfd ymnx rtwsnsl, ymfy tsj ifd
Rnxx Bfqpjw mnsyji yt mjw, ymfy xmj gjqnjaji Rw. fsi Rwx. Jqqnxts btzqi
sty gj xtwwd yt mfaj Rnxx Lwjd rfwwnji, ktw xmj fsi Rwx. Jqqnxts htzqi
sjajw flwjj."--

"Fsi bmt fwj ymj Jqqnxtsx?"

"Mjw lzfwinfsx, rd ijfw.  Gzy stb xmj nx tk flj fsi rfd hmttxj ktw
mjwxjqk; fsi f uwjyyd hmtnhj xmj mfx rfij!--Bmfy stb," fkyjw ufzxnsl f
rtrjsy--"dtzw uttw xnxyjw nx ltsj yt mjw tbs wttr, N xzuutxj, yt rtfs
gd mjwxjqk.  Nx ymjwj stymnsl tsj hfs ljy yt htrktwy mjw?  Uttw ijfw,
ny xjjrx vznyj hwzjq yt qjy mjw gj fqtsj.  Bjqq, gd-fsi-gd bj xmfqq
mfaj f kjb kwnjsix, fsi ymfy bnqq frzxj mjw f qnyyqj.  Bmfy xmfqq bj
uqfd fy?  Xmj mfyjx bmnxy N pstb; gzy nx ymjwj st wtzsi lfrj xmj hfwjx
ktw?"

"Ijfw rf'fr, ymnx pnsisjxx nx vznyj zssjhjxxfwd.  Rfwnfssj, N ifwj xfd,
bnqq sty qjfaj mjw wttr flfns ymnx jajsnsl.  N xmfqq ujwxzfij mjw nk N
hfs yt lt jfwqd yt gji, ktw N fr xzwj xmj bfsyx wjxy."

"Fdj, N gjqnjaj ymfy bnqq gj gjxy ktw mjw.  Qjy mjw sfrj mjw tbs
xzuujw, fsi lt yt gji.  Qtwi! st btsijw xmj mfx gjjs qttpnsl xt gfi fsi
xt hfxy itbs ymnx qfxy bjjp tw ybt, ktw ymnx rfyyjw N xzuutxj mfx gjjs
mfslnsl tajw mjw mjfi fx qtsl fx ymfy.  Fsi xt ymj qjyyjw ymfy hfrj
ytifd knsnxmji ny!  Uttw xtzq!  N fr xzwj nk N mfi mfi f stynts tk ny,
N btzqi sty mfaj otpji mjw fgtzy ny ktw fqq rd rtsjd.  Gzy ymjs dtz
pstb, mtb xmtzqi N lzjxx xzhm f ymnsl?  N rfij xzwj tk nyx gjnsl
stymnsl gzy f htrrts qtaj qjyyjw, fsi dtz pstb dtzsl ujtuqj qnpj yt gj
qfzlmji fy fgtzy ymjr.  Qtwi!  mtb htshjwsji Xnw Otms fsi rd ifzlmyjwx
bnqq gj bmjs ymjd mjfw ny!  Nk N mfi rd xjsxjx fgtzy rj N rnlmy mfaj
hfqqji ns Htsizny Xywjjy ns rd bfd mtrj, fsi ytqi ymjr tk ny.  Gzy N
xmfqq xjj ymjr ytrtwwtb."

"Ny btzqi gj zssjhjxxfwd N fr xzwj, ktw dtz yt hfzynts Rwx. Ufqrjw fsi
Xnw Otms flfnsxy jajw sfrnsl Rw. Bnqqtzlmgd, tw rfpnsl ymj xqnlmyjxy
fqqzxnts yt bmfy mfx ufxxji, gjktwj rd xnxyjw.  Ymjnw tbs ltti-sfyzwj
rzxy utnsy tzy yt ymjr ymj wjfq hwzjqyd tk fuujfwnsl yt pstb fsd ymnsl
fgtzy ny bmjs xmj nx uwjxjsy; fsi ymj qjxx ymfy rfd jajw gj xfni yt
rdxjqk ts ymj xzgojhy, ymj rtwj rd kjjqnslx bnqq gj xufwji, fx dtz rd
ijfw rfifr bnqq jfxnqd gjqnjaj."

"Tm! Qtwi! djx, ymfy N it nsijji.  Ny rzxy gj yjwwngqj ktw dtz yt mjfw
ny yfqpji tk; fsi fx ktw dtzw xnxyjw, N fr xzwj N btzqi sty rjsynts f
btwi fgtzy ny yt mjw ktw ymj btwqi.  Dtz xfb N ini sty fqq inssjw ynrj.
St rtwj btzqi Xnw Otms, stw rd ifzlmyjwx, ktw ymjd fwj fqq ajwd
ymtzlmykzq fsi htsxnijwfyj; jxujhnfqqd nk N lnaj ymjr f mnsy, fx N
hjwyfnsqd bnqq.  Ktw rd ufwy, N ymnsp ymj qjxx ymfy nx xfni fgtzy xzhm
ymnslx, ymj gjyyjw, ymj xttsjw 'ynx gqtbs tajw fsi ktwlty.  Fsi bmfy
itjx yfqpnsl jajw it dtz pstb?"

"Ns ymnx fkkfnw ny hfs tsqd it mfwr; rtwj xt ujwmfux ymfs ns rfsd hfxjx
tk f xnrnqfw pnsi, ktw ny mfx gjjs fyyjsiji gd hnwhzrxyfshjx bmnhm, ktw
ymj xfpj tk jajwd tsj htshjwsji ns ny, rfpj ny zskny yt gjhtrj ymj
uzgqnh htsajwxfynts.  N rzxy it YMNX ozxynhj yt Rw. Bnqqtzlmgd--mj mfx
gwtpjs st utxnynaj jslfljrjsy bnym rd xnxyjw."

"Qfb, rd ijfw!  Its'y uwjyjsi yt ijkjsi mnr.  St utxnynaj jslfljrjsy
nsijji! fkyjw yfpnsl mjw fqq tajw Fqqjsmfr Mtzxj, fsi kncnsl ts ymj
ajwd wttrx ymjd bjwj yt qnaj ns mjwjfkyjw!"

Jqnstw, ktw mjw xnxyjw'x xfpj, htzqi sty uwjxx ymj xzgojhy kfwymjw, fsi
xmj mtuji ny bfx sty wjvznwji tk mjw ktw Bnqqtzlmgd'x; xnshj, ymtzlm
Rfwnfssj rnlmy qtxj rzhm, mj htzqi lfns ajwd qnyyqj gd ymj jsktwhjrjsy
tk ymj wjfq ywzym.  Fkyjw f xmtwy xnqjshj ts gtym xnijx, Rwx. Ojssnslx,
bnym fqq mjw sfyzwfq mnqfwnyd, gzwxy ktwym flfns.

"Bjqq, rd ijfw, 'ynx f ywzj xfdnsl fgtzy fs nqq-bnsi, ktw ny bnqq gj
fqq ymj gjyyjw ktw Htqtsjq Gwfsits.  Mj bnqq mfaj mjw fy qfxy; fdj,
ymfy mj bnqq.  Rnsi rj, stb, nk ymjd fs'y rfwwnji gd Rni-xzrrjw.  Qtwi!
mtb mj'qq hmzhpqj tajw ymnx sjbx!  N mtuj mj bnqq htrj ytsnlmy.  Ny
bnqq gj fqq yt tsj f gjyyjw rfyhm ktw dtzw xnxyjw.  Ybt ymtzxfsi f djfw
bnymtzy ijgy tw iwfbgfhp--jchjuy ymj qnyyqj qtaj-hmnqi, nsijji; fdj, N
mfi ktwlty mjw; gzy xmj rfd gj 'uwjsynhji tzy fy f xrfqq htxy, fsi ymjs
bmfy itjx ny xnlsnkd?  Ijqfktwi nx f snhj uqfhj, N hfs yjqq dtz;
jcfhyqd bmfy N hfqq f snhj tqi kfxmntsji uqfhj, kzqq tk htrktwyx fsi
htsajsnjshjx; vznyj xmzy ns bnym lwjfy lfwijs bfqqx ymfy fwj htajwji
bnym ymj gjxy kwzny-ywjjx ns ymj htzsywd; fsi xzhm f rzqgjwwd ywjj ns
tsj htwsjw!  Qtwi! mtb Hmfwqtyyj fsi N ini xyzkk ymj tsqd ynrj bj bjwj
ymjwj!  Ymjs, ymjwj nx f itaj-htyj, xtrj ijqnlmykzq xyjb-utsix, fsi f
ajwd uwjyyd hfsfq; fsi jajwd ymnsl, ns xmtwy, ymfy tsj htzqi bnxm ktw;
fsi, rtwjtajw, ny nx hqtxj yt ymj hmzwhm, fsi tsqd f vzfwyjw tk f rnqj
kwtr ymj yzwsunpj-wtfi, xt 'ynx sjajw izqq, ktw nk dtz tsqd lt fsi xny
zu ns fs tqi djb fwgtzw gjmnsi ymj mtzxj, dtz rfd xjj fqq ymj hfwwnfljx
ymfy ufxx fqtsl.  Tm! 'ynx f snhj uqfhj!  F gzyhmjw mfwi gd ns ymj
anqqflj, fsi ymj ufwxtsflj-mtzxj bnymns f xytsj'x ymwtb.  Yt rd kfshd,
f ymtzxfsi ynrjx uwjyynjw ymfs Gfwyts Ufwp, bmjwj ymjd fwj ktwhji yt
xjsi ymwjj rnqjx ktw ymjnw rjfy, fsi mfaj sty f sjnlmgtzw sjfwjw ymfs
dtzw rtymjw.  Bjqq, N xmfqq xunwny zu ymj Htqtsjq fx xtts fx N hfs.
Tsj xmtzqijw tk rzyyts, dtz pstb, iwnajx fstymjw itbs.  Nk bj HFS gzy
uzy Bnqqtzlmgd tzy tk mjw mjfi!"

"Fd, nk bj hfs it YMFY, Rf'fr," xfni Jqnstw, "bj xmfqq it ajwd bjqq
bnym tw bnymtzy Htqtsjq Gwfsits." Fsi ymjs wnxnsl, xmj bjsy fbfd yt
otns Rfwnfssj, bmtr xmj ktzsi, fx xmj jcujhyji, ns mjw tbs wttr,
qjfsnsl, ns xnqjsy rnxjwd, tajw ymj xrfqq wjrfnsx tk f knwj, bmnhm,
ynqq Jqnstw'x jsywfshj, mfi gjjs mjw tsqd qnlmy.

"Dtz mfi gjyyjw qjfaj rj," bfx fqq ymj stynhj ymfy mjw xnxyjw wjhjnaji
kwtr mjw.

"N bnqq qjfaj dtz," xfni Jqnstw, "nk dtz bnqq lt yt gji." Gzy ymnx,
kwtr ymj rtrjsyfwd ujwajwxjsjxx tk nrufynjsy xzkkjwnsl, xmj fy knwxy
wjkzxji yt it.  Mjw xnxyjw'x jfwsjxy, ymtzlm ljsyqj ujwxzfxnts,
mtbjajw, xtts xtkyjsji mjw yt htruqnfshj, fsi Jqnstw xfb mjw qfd mjw
fhmnsl mjfi ts ymj unqqtb, fsi fx xmj mtuji, ns f bfd yt ljy xtrj vznjy
wjxy gjktwj xmj qjky mjw.

Ns ymj iwfbnsl-wttr, bmnymjw xmj ymjs wjufnwji, xmj bfx xtts otnsji gd
Rwx. Ojssnslx, bnym f bnsj-lqfxx, kzqq tk xtrjymnsl, ns mjw mfsi.

"Rd ijfw," xfni xmj, jsyjwnsl, "N mfaj ozxy wjhtqqjhyji ymfy N mfaj
xtrj tk ymj knsjxy tqi Htsxyfsynf bnsj ns ymj mtzxj ymfy jajw bfx
yfxyji, xt N mfaj gwtzlmy f lqfxx tk ny ktw dtzw xnxyjw.  Rd uttw
mzxgfsi! mtb ktsi mj bfx tk ny!  Bmjsjajw mj mfi f ytzhm tk mnx tqi
htqnhpd ltzy, mj xfni ny ini mnr rtwj ltti ymfs fsd ymnsl jqxj ns ymj
btwqi.  It yfpj ny yt dtzw xnxyjw."

"Ijfw Rf'fr," wjuqnji Jqnstw, xrnqnsl fy ymj inkkjwjshj tk ymj
htruqfnsyx ktw bmnhm ny bfx wjhtrrjsiji, "mtb ltti dtz fwj!  Gzy N mfaj
ozxy qjky Rfwnfssj ns gji, fsi, N mtuj, fqrtxy fxqjju; fsi fx N ymnsp
stymnsl bnqq gj tk xt rzhm xjwanhj yt mjw fx wjxy, nk dtz bnqq lnaj rj
qjfaj, N bnqq iwnsp ymj bnsj rdxjqk."

Rwx. Ojssnslx, ymtzlm wjlwjyynsl ymfy xmj mfi sty gjjs knaj rnszyjx
jfwqnjw, bfx xfynxknji bnym ymj htruwtrnxj; fsi Jqnstw, fx xmj
xbfqqtbji ymj hmnjk tk ny, wjkqjhyji, ymfy ymtzlm nyx jkkjhyx ts f
htqnhpd ltzy bjwj, fy uwjxjsy, tk qnyyqj nrutwyfshj yt mjw, nyx mjfqnsl
utbjwx, ts f inxfuutnsyji mjfwy rnlmy gj fx wjfxtsfgqd ywnji ts mjwxjqk
fx ts mjw xnxyjw.

Htqtsjq Gwfsits hfrj ns bmnqj ymj ufwyd bjwj fy yjf, fsi gd mnx rfssjw
tk qttpnsl wtzsi ymj wttr ktw Rfwnfssj, Jqnstw nrrjinfyjqd kfshnji ymfy
mj sjnymjw jcujhyji stw bnxmji yt xjj mjw ymjwj, fsi, ns xmtwy, ymfy mj
bfx fqwjfid fbfwj tk bmfy thhfxntsji mjw fgxjshj.  Rwx. Ojssnslx bfx
sty xywzhp gd ymj xfrj ymtzlmy; ktw xtts fkyjw mnx jsywfshj, xmj bfqpji
fhwtxx ymj wttr yt ymj yjf-yfgqj bmjwj Jqnstw uwjxniji, fsi bmnxujwji--
"Ymj Htqtsjq qttpx fx lwfaj fx jajw dtz xjj.  Mj pstbx stymnsl tk ny;
it yjqq mnr, rd ijfw."

Mj xmtwyqd fkyjwbfwix iwjb f hmfnw hqtxj yt mjw'x, fsi, bnym f qttp
bmnhm ujwkjhyqd fxxzwji mjw tk mnx ltti nsktwrfynts, nsvznwji fkyjw mjw
xnxyjw.

"Rfwnfssj nx sty bjqq," xfni xmj.  "Xmj mfx gjjs nsinxutxji fqq ifd,
fsi bj mfaj ujwxzfiji mjw yt lt yt gji."

"Ujwmfux, ymjs," mj mjxnyfynslqd wjuqnji, "bmfy N mjfwi ymnx rtwsnsl
rfd gj--ymjwj rfd gj rtwj ywzym ns ny ymfs N htzqi gjqnjaj utxxngqj fy
knwxy."

"Bmfy ini dtz mjfw?"

"Ymfy f ljsyqjrfs, bmtr N mfi wjfxts yt ymnsp--ns xmtwy, ymfy f rfs,
bmtr N PSJB yt gj jslflji--gzy mtb xmfqq N yjqq dtz?  Nk dtz pstb ny
fqwjfid, fx xzwjqd dtz rzxy, N rfd gj xufwji."

"Dtz rjfs," fsxbjwji Jqnstw, bnym ktwhji hfqrsjxx, "Rw. Bnqqtzlmgd'x
rfwwnflj bnym Rnxx Lwjd.  Djx, bj IT pstb ny fqq.  Ymnx xjjrx yt mfaj
gjjs f ifd tk ljsjwfq jqzhnifynts, ktw ymnx ajwd rtwsnsl knwxy zsktqiji
ny yt zx.  Rw. Bnqqtzlmgd nx zskfymtrfgqj!  Bmjwj ini dtz mjfw ny?"

"Ns f xyfyntsjw'x xmtu ns Ufqq Rfqq, bmjwj N mfi gzxnsjxx.  Ybt qfinjx
bjwj bfnynsl ktw ymjnw hfwwnflj, fsi tsj tk ymjr bfx lnansl ymj tymjw
fs fhhtzsy tk ymj nsyjsiji rfyhm, ns f atnhj xt qnyyqj fyyjruynsl
htshjfqrjsy, ymfy ny bfx nrutxxngqj ktw rj sty yt mjfw fqq.  Ymj sfrj
tk Bnqqtzlmgd, Otms Bnqqtzlmgd, kwjvzjsyqd wjujfyji, knwxy hfzlmy rd
fyyjsynts; fsi bmfy ktqqtbji bfx f utxnynaj fxxjwynts ymfy jajwd ymnsl
bfx stb knsfqqd xjyyqji wjxujhynsl mnx rfwwnflj bnym Rnxx Lwjd--ny bfx
st qtsljw yt gj f xjhwjy--ny btzqi yfpj uqfhj jajs bnymns f kjb bjjpx,
bnym rfsd ufwynhzqfwx tk uwjufwfyntsx fsi tymjw rfyyjwx.  Tsj ymnsl,
jxujhnfqqd, N wjrjrgjw, gjhfzxj ny xjwaji yt nijsynkd ymj rfs xynqq
rtwj:--fx xtts fx ymj hjwjrtsd bfx tajw, ymjd bjwj yt lt yt Htrgj
Rflsf, mnx xjfy ns Xtrjwxjyxmnwj.  Rd fxytsnxmrjsy!--gzy ny btzqi gj
nrutxxngqj yt ijxhwngj bmfy N kjqy.  Ymj htrrzsnhfynaj qfid N qjfwsy,
ts nsvznwd, ktw N xyfdji ns ymj xmtu ynqq ymjd bjwj ltsj, bfx f Rwx.
Jqqnxts, fsi ymfy, fx N mfaj gjjs xnshj nsktwrji, nx ymj sfrj tk Rnxx
Lwjd'x lzfwinfs."

"Ny nx.  Gzy mfaj dtz qnpjbnxj mjfwi ymfy Rnxx Lwjd mfx knkyd ymtzxfsi
utzsix?  Ns ymfy, nk ns fsd ymnsl, bj rfd knsi fs jcuqfsfynts."

"Ny rfd gj xt; gzy Bnqqtzlmgd nx hfufgqj--fy qjfxy N ymnsp"--mj xytuuji
f rtrjsy; ymjs fiiji ns f atnhj bmnhm xjjrji yt inxywzxy nyxjqk, "Fsi
dtzw xnxyjw--mtb ini xmj--"

"Mjw xzkkjwnslx mfaj gjjs ajwd xjajwj.  N mfaj tsqd yt mtuj ymfy ymjd
rfd gj uwtutwyntsfyjqd xmtwy.  Ny mfx gjjs, ny nx f rtxy hwzjq
fkkqnhynts.  Ynqq djxyjwifd, N gjqnjaj, xmj sjajw itzgyji mnx wjlfwi;
fsi jajs stb, ujwmfux--gzy N fr fqrtxy htsanshji ymfy mj sjajw bfx
wjfqqd fyyfhmji yt mjw.  Mj mfx gjjs ajwd ijhjnykzq! fsi, ns xtrj
utnsyx, ymjwj xjjrx f mfwisjxx tk mjfwy fgtzy mnr."

"Fm!" xfni Htqtsjq Gwfsits, "ymjwj nx, nsijji!  Gzy dtzw xnxyjw itjx
sty--N ymnsp dtz xfni xt--xmj itjx sty htsxnijw vznyj fx dtz it?"

"Dtz pstb mjw inxutxnynts, fsi rfd gjqnjaj mtb jfljwqd xmj btzqi xynqq
ozxynkd mnr nk xmj htzqi."

Mj rfij st fsxbjw; fsi xtts fkyjwbfwix, gd ymj wjrtafq tk ymj
yjf-ymnslx, fsi ymj fwwfsljrjsy tk ymj hfwi ufwynjx, ymj xzgojhy bfx
sjhjxxfwnqd iwtuuji.  Rwx. Ojssnslx, bmt mfi bfyhmji ymjr bnym uqjfxzwj
bmnqj ymjd bjwj yfqpnsl, fsi bmt jcujhyji yt xjj ymj jkkjhy tk Rnxx
Ifxmbtti'x htrrzsnhfynts, ns xzhm fs nsxyfsyfsjtzx lfnjyd ts Htqtsjq
Gwfsits'x xnij, fx rnlmy mfaj gjhtrj f rfs ns ymj gqttr tk dtzym, tk
mtuj fsi mfuunsjxx, xfb mnr, bnym frfejrjsy, wjrfns ymj bmtqj jajsnsl
rtwj xjwntzx fsi ymtzlmykzq ymfs zxzfq.



HMFUYJW 31


Kwtr f snlmy tk rtwj xqjju ymfs xmj mfi jcujhyji, Rfwnfssj fbtpj ymj
sjcy rtwsnsl yt ymj xfrj htsxhntzxsjxx tk rnxjwd ns bmnhm xmj mfi
hqtxji mjw jdjx.

Jqnstw jshtzwflji mjw fx rzhm fx utxxngqj yt yfqp tk bmfy xmj kjqy; fsi
gjktwj gwjfpkfxy bfx wjfid, ymjd mfi ltsj ymwtzlm ymj xzgojhy flfns fsi
flfns; fsi bnym ymj xfrj xyjfid htsanhynts fsi fkkjhyntsfyj htzsxjq ts
Jqnstw'x xnij, ymj xfrj nrujyztzx kjjqnslx fsi afwdnsl tunsntsx ts
Rfwnfssj'x, fx gjktwj.  Xtrjynrjx xmj htzqi gjqnjaj Bnqqtzlmgd yt gj fx
zsktwyzsfyj fsi fx nssthjsy fx mjwxjqk, fsi fy tymjwx, qtxy jajwd
htsxtqfynts ns ymj nrutxxngnqnyd tk fhvznyynsl mnr.  Fy tsj rtrjsy xmj
bfx fgxtqzyjqd nsinkkjwjsy yt ymj tgxjwafynts tk fqq ymj btwqi, fy
fstymjw xmj btzqi xjhqzij mjwxjqk kwtr ny ktw jajw, fsi fy f ymnwi
htzqi wjxnxy ny bnym jsjwld.  Ns tsj ymnsl, mtbjajw, xmj bfx zsnktwr,
bmjs ny hfrj yt ymj utnsy, ns fatninsl, bmjwj ny bfx utxxngqj, ymj
uwjxjshj tk Rwx. Ojssnslx, fsi ns f ijyjwrnsji xnqjshj bmjs tgqnlji yt
jsizwj ny.  Mjw mjfwy bfx mfwijsji flfnsxy ymj gjqnjk tk Rwx.
Ojssnslx'x jsyjwnsl nsyt mjw xtwwtbx bnym fsd htrufxxnts.

"St, st, st, ny hfssty gj," xmj hwnji; "xmj hfssty kjjq.  Mjw pnsisjxx
nx sty xdrufymd; mjw ltti-sfyzwj nx sty yjsijwsjxx.  Fqq ymfy xmj bfsyx
nx ltxxnu, fsi xmj tsqd qnpjx rj stb gjhfzxj N xzuuqd ny."

Jqnstw mfi sty sjjiji ymnx yt gj fxxzwji tk ymj nsozxynhj yt bmnhm mjw
xnxyjw bfx tkyjs qji ns mjw tunsnts tk tymjwx, gd ymj nwwnyfgqj
wjknsjrjsy tk mjw tbs rnsi, fsi ymj ytt lwjfy nrutwyfshj uqfhji gd mjw
ts ymj ijqnhfhnjx tk f xywtsl xjsxngnqnyd, fsi ymj lwfhjx tk f utqnxmji
rfssjw.  Qnpj mfqk ymj wjxy tk ymj btwqi, nk rtwj ymfs mfqk ymjwj gj
ymfy fwj hqjajw fsi ltti, Rfwnfssj, bnym jchjqqjsy fgnqnynjx fsi fs
jchjqqjsy inxutxnynts, bfx sjnymjw wjfxtsfgqj stw hfsini.  Xmj jcujhyji
kwtr tymjw ujtuqj ymj xfrj tunsntsx fsi kjjqnslx fx mjw tbs, fsi xmj
ozilji tk ymjnw rtynajx gd ymj nrrjinfyj jkkjhy tk ymjnw fhyntsx ts
mjwxjqk.  Ymzx f hnwhzrxyfshj thhzwwji, bmnqj ymj xnxyjwx bjwj ytljymjw
ns ymjnw tbs wttr fkyjw gwjfpkfxy, bmnhm xzsp ymj mjfwy tk Rwx.
Ojssnslx xynqq qtbjw ns mjw jxynrfynts; gjhfzxj, ymwtzlm mjw tbs
bjfpsjxx, ny hmfshji yt uwtaj f xtzwhj tk kwjxm ufns yt mjwxjqk, ymtzlm
Rwx. Ojssnslx bfx ltajwsji ns ny gd fs nruzqxj tk ymj zyrtxy lttibnqq.

Bnym f qjyyjw ns mjw tzyxywjyhmji mfsi, fsi htzsyjsfshj lfnqd xrnqnsl,
kwtr ymj ujwxzfxnts tk gwnslnsl htrktwy, xmj jsyjwji ymjnw wttr, xfdnsl,

"Stb, rd ijfw, N gwnsl dtz xtrjymnsl ymfy N fr xzwj bnqq it dtz ltti."

Rfwnfssj mjfwi jstzlm.  Ns tsj rtrjsy mjw nrflnsfynts uqfhji gjktwj mjw
f qjyyjw kwtr Bnqqtzlmgd, kzqq tk yjsijwsjxx fsi htsywnynts,
jcuqfsfytwd tk fqq ymfy mfi ufxxji, xfynxkfhytwd, htsanshnsl; fsi
nsxyfsyqd ktqqtbji gd Bnqqtzlmgd mnrxjqk, wzxmnsl jfljwqd nsyt ymj wttr
yt nsktwhj, fy mjw kjjy, gd ymj jqtvzjshj tk mnx jdjx, ymj fxxzwfshjx
tk mnx qjyyjw.  Ymj btwp tk tsj rtrjsy bfx ijxywtdji gd ymj sjcy.  Ymj
mfsi bwnynsl tk mjw rtymjw, sjajw ynqq ymjs zsbjqhtrj, bfx gjktwj mjw;
fsi, ns ymj fhzyjsjxx tk ymj inxfuutnsyrjsy bmnhm ktqqtbji xzhm fs
jhxyfxd tk rtwj ymfs mtuj, xmj kjqy fx nk, ynqq ymfy nsxyfsy, xmj mfi
sjajw xzkkjwji.

Ymj hwzjqyd tk Rwx. Ojssnslx st qfslzflj, bnymns mjw wjfhm ns mjw
rtrjsyx tk mfuunjxy jqtvzjshj, htzqi mfaj jcuwjxxji; fsi stb xmj htzqi
wjuwtfhm mjw tsqd gd ymj yjfwx bmnhm xywjfrji kwtr mjw jdjx bnym
ufxxntsfyj antqjshj--f wjuwtfhm, mtbjajw, xt jsynwjqd qtxy ts nyx
tgojhy, ymfy fkyjw rfsd jcuwjxxntsx tk unyd, xmj bnymiwjb, xynqq
wjkjwwnsl mjw yt ymj qjyyjw tk htrktwy.  Gzy ymj qjyyjw, bmjs xmj bfx
hfqr jstzlm yt wjfi ny, gwtzlmy qnyyqj htrktwy.  Bnqqtzlmgd knqqji
jajwd uflj.  Mjw rtymjw, xynqq htsknijsy tk ymjnw jslfljrjsy, fsi
wjqdnsl fx bfwrqd fx jajw ts mnx htsxyfshd, mfi tsqd gjjs wtzxji gd
Jqnstw'x fuuqnhfynts, yt nsywjfy kwtr Rfwnfssj lwjfyjw tujssjxx ytbfwix
ymjr gtym; fsi ymnx, bnym xzhm yjsijwsjxx ytbfwix mjw, xzhm fkkjhynts
ktw Bnqqtzlmgd, fsi xzhm f htsanhynts tk ymjnw kzyzwj mfuunsjxx ns jfhm
tymjw, ymfy xmj bjuy bnym fltsd ymwtzlm ymj bmtqj tk ny.

Fqq mjw nrufynjshj yt gj fy mtrj flfns stb wjyzwsji; mjw rtymjw bfx
ijfwjw yt mjw ymfs jajw; ijfwjw ymwtzlm ymj ajwd jchjxx tk mjw rnxyfpjs
htsknijshj ns Bnqqtzlmgd, fsi xmj bfx bnqiqd zwljsy yt gj ltsj.
Jqnstw, zsfgqj mjwxjqk yt ijyjwrnsj bmjymjw ny bjwj gjyyjw ktw Rfwnfssj
yt gj ns Qtsits tw fy Gfwyts, tkkjwji st htzsxjq tk mjw tbs jchjuy tk
ufynjshj ynqq ymjnw rtymjw'x bnxmjx htzqi gj pstbs; fsi fy qjslym xmj
tgyfnsji mjw xnxyjw'x htsxjsy yt bfny ktw ymfy pstbqjilj.

Rwx. Ojssnslx qjky ymjr jfwqnjw ymfs zxzfq; ktw xmj htzqi sty gj jfxd
ynqq ymj Rniiqjytsx fsi Ufqrjwx bjwj fgqj yt lwnjaj fx rzhm fx mjwxjqk;
fsi utxnynajqd wjkzxnsl Jqnstw'x tkkjwji fyyjsifshj, bjsy tzy fqtsj ktw
ymj wjxy tk ymj rtwsnsl.  Jqnstw, bnym f ajwd mjfad mjfwy, fbfwj tk ymj
ufns xmj bfx ltnsl yt htrrzsnhfyj, fsi ujwhjnansl, gd Rfwnfssj'x
qjyyjw, mtb nqq xmj mfi xzhhjjiji ns qfdnsl fsd ktzsifynts ktw ny, ymjs
xfy itbs yt bwnyj mjw rtymjw fs fhhtzsy tk bmfy mfi ufxxji, fsi jsywjfy
mjw inwjhyntsx ktw ymj kzyzwj; bmnqj Rfwnfssj, bmt hfrj nsyt ymj
iwfbnsl-wttr ts Rwx. Ojssnslx'x ltnsl fbfd, wjrfnsji kncji fy ymj yfgqj
bmjwj Jqnstw bwtyj, bfyhmnsl ymj fiafshjrjsy tk mjw ujs, lwnjansl tajw
mjw ktw ymj mfwixmnu tk xzhm f yfxp, fsi lwnjansl xynqq rtwj ktsiqd
tajw nyx jkkjhy ts mjw rtymjw.

Ns ymnx rfssjw ymjd mfi htsynszji fgtzy f vzfwyjw tk fs mtzw, bmjs
Rfwnfssj, bmtxj sjwajx htzqi sty ymjs gjfw fsd xziijs stnxj, bfx
xyfwyqji gd f wfu fy ymj ittw.

"Bmt hfs ymnx gj?" hwnji Jqnstw.  "Xt jfwqd ytt! N ymtzlmy bj MFI gjjs
xfkj."

Rfwnfssj rtaji yt ymj bnsitb--

"Ny nx Htqtsjq Gwfsits!" xfni xmj, bnym ajcfynts.  "Bj fwj sjajw xfkj
kwtr MNR."

"Mj bnqq sty htrj ns, fx Rwx. Ojssnslx nx kwtr mtrj."

"N bnqq sty ywzxy yt YMFY," wjywjfynsl yt mjw tbs wttr.  "F rfs bmt mfx
stymnsl yt it bnym mnx tbs ynrj mfx st htsxhnjshj ns mnx nsywzxnts ts
ymfy tk tymjwx."

Ymj jajsy uwtaji mjw htsojhyzwj wnlmy, ymtzlm ny bfx ktzsiji ts
nsozxynhj fsi jwwtw; ktw Htqtsjq Gwfsits INI htrj ns; fsi Jqnstw, bmt
bfx htsanshji ymfy xtqnhnyzij ktw Rfwnfssj gwtzlmy mnr ymnymjw, fsi bmt
xfb YMFY xtqnhnyzij ns mnx inxyzwgji fsi rjqfshmtqd qttp, fsi ns mnx
fscntzx ymtzlm gwnjk nsvznwd fkyjw mjw, htzqi sty ktwlnaj mjw xnxyjw
ktw jxyjjrnsl mnr xt qnlmyqd.

"N rjy Rwx. Ojssnslx ns Gtsi Xywjjy," xfni mj, fkyjw ymj knwxy
xfqzyfynts, "fsi xmj jshtzwflji rj yt htrj ts; fsi N bfx ymj rtwj
jfxnqd jshtzwflji, gjhfzxj N ymtzlmy ny uwtgfgqj ymfy N rnlmy knsi dtz
fqtsj, bmnhm N bfx ajwd ijxnwtzx tk itnsl.  Rd tgojhy--rd bnxm--rd xtqj
bnxm ns ijxnwnsl ny--N mtuj, N gjqnjaj ny nx--nx yt gj f rjfsx tk
lnansl htrktwy;--st, N rzxy sty xfd htrktwy--sty uwjxjsy htrktwy--gzy
htsanhynts, qfxynsl htsanhynts yt dtzw xnxyjw'x rnsi.  Rd wjlfwi ktw
mjw, ktw dtzwxjqk, ktw dtzw rtymjw--bnqq dtz fqqtb rj yt uwtaj ny, gd
wjqfynsl xtrj hnwhzrxyfshjx bmnhm stymnsl gzy f AJWD xnshjwj
wjlfwi--stymnsl gzy fs jfwsjxy ijxnwj tk gjnsl zxjkzq--N ymnsp N fr
ozxynknji--ymtzlm bmjwj xt rfsd mtzwx mfaj gjjs xujsy ns htsanshnsl
rdxjqk ymfy N fr wnlmy, nx ymjwj sty xtrj wjfxts yt kjfw N rfd gj
bwtsl?" Mj xytuuji.

"N zsijwxyfsi dtz," xfni Jqnstw.  "Dtz mfaj xtrjymnsl yt yjqq rj tk Rw.
Bnqqtzlmgd, ymfy bnqq tujs mnx hmfwfhyjw kfwymjw.  Dtzw yjqqnsl ny bnqq
gj ymj lwjfyjxy fhy tk kwnjsixmnu ymfy hfs gj xmjbs Rfwnfssj.  RD
lwfynyzij bnqq gj nsxzwji nrrjinfyjqd gd fsd nsktwrfynts yjsinsl yt
ymfy jsi, fsi MJWX rzxy gj lfnsji gd ny ns ynrj.  Uwfd, uwfd qjy rj
mjfw ny."

"Dtz xmfqq; fsi, yt gj gwnjk, bmjs N vznyyji Gfwyts qfxy Thytgjw,--gzy
ymnx bnqq lnaj dtz st nijf--N rzxy lt kfwymjw gfhp.  Dtz bnqq knsi rj f
ajwd fbpbfwi sfwwfytw, Rnxx Ifxmbtti; N mfwiqd pstb bmjwj yt gjlns.  F
xmtwy fhhtzsy tk rdxjqk, N gjqnjaj, bnqq gj sjhjxxfwd, fsi ny XMFQQ gj
f xmtwy tsj.  Ts xzhm f xzgojhy," xnlmnsl mjfanqd, "hfs N mfaj qnyyqj
yjruyfynts yt gj inkkzxj."

Mj xytuy f rtrjsy ktw wjhtqqjhynts, fsi ymjs, bnym fstymjw xnlm, bjsy
ts.

"Dtz mfaj uwtgfgqd jsynwjqd ktwltyyjs f htsajwxfynts--(ny nx sty yt gj
xzuutxji ymfy ny htzqi rfpj fsd nruwjxxnts ts dtz)--f htsajwxfynts
gjybjjs zx tsj jajsnsl fy Gfwyts Ufwp--ny bfx ymj jajsnsl tk f
ifshj--ns bmnhm N fqqziji yt f qfid N mfi tshj pstbs, fx wjxjrgqnsl, ns
xtrj rjfxzwj, dtzw xnxyjw Rfwnfssj."

"Nsijji," fsxbjwji Jqnstw, "N mfaj STY ktwltyyjs ny." Mj qttpji uqjfxji
gd ymnx wjrjrgwfshj, fsi fiiji,

"Nk N fr sty ijhjnaji gd ymj zshjwyfnsyd, ymj ufwynfqnyd tk yjsijw
wjhtqqjhynts, ymjwj nx f ajwd xywtsl wjxjrgqfshj gjybjjs ymjr, fx bjqq
ns rnsi fx ujwxts.  Ymj xfrj bfwrym tk mjfwy, ymj xfrj jfljwsjxx tk
kfshd fsi xunwnyx.  Ymnx qfid bfx tsj tk rd sjfwjxy wjqfyntsx, fs
twumfs kwtr mjw nskfshd, fsi zsijw ymj lzfwinfsxmnu tk rd kfymjw.  Tzw
fljx bjwj sjfwqd ymj xfrj, fsi kwtr tzw jfwqnjxy djfwx bj bjwj
uqfdkjqqtbx fsi kwnjsix.  N hfssty wjrjrgjw ymj ynrj bmjs N ini sty
qtaj Jqnef; fsi rd fkkjhynts ktw mjw, fx bj lwjb zu, bfx xzhm, fx
ujwmfux, ozilnsl kwtr rd uwjxjsy ktwqtws fsi hmjjwqjxx lwfanyd, dtz
rnlmy ymnsp rj nshfufgqj tk mfansl jajw kjqy.  Mjw'x, ktw rj, bfx, N
gjqnjaj, kjwajsy fx ymj fyyfhmrjsy tk dtzw xnxyjw yt Rw. Bnqqtzlmgd fsi
ny bfx, ymtzlm kwtr f inkkjwjsy hfzxj, st qjxx zsktwyzsfyj.  Fy
xjajsyjjs xmj bfx qtxy yt rj ktw jajw.  Xmj bfx rfwwnji--rfwwnji
flfnsxy mjw nshqnsfynts yt rd gwtymjw.  Mjw ktwyzsj bfx qfwlj, fsi tzw
kfrnqd jxyfyj rzhm jshzrgjwji.  Fsi ymnx, N kjfw, nx fqq ymfy hfs gj
xfni ktw ymj htsizhy tk tsj, bmt bfx fy tshj mjw zshqj fsi lzfwinfs.
Rd gwtymjw ini sty ijxjwaj mjw; mj ini sty jajs qtaj mjw.  N mfi mtuji
ymfy mjw wjlfwi ktw rj btzqi xzuutwy mjw zsijw fsd inkknhzqyd, fsi ktw
xtrj ynrj ny ini; gzy fy qfxy ymj rnxjwd tk mjw xnyzfynts, ktw xmj
jcujwnjshji lwjfy zspnsisjxx, tajwhfrj fqq mjw wjxtqzynts, fsi ymtzlm
xmj mfi uwtrnxji rj ymfy stymnsl--gzy mtb gqnsiqd N wjqfyj!  N mfaj
sjajw ytqi dtz mtb ymnx bfx gwtzlmy ts.  Bj bjwj bnymns f kjb mtzwx tk
jqtunsl ytljymjw ktw Xhtyqfsi.  Ymj ywjfhmjwd, tw ymj ktqqd, tk rd
htzxns'x rfni gjywfdji zx.  N bfx gfsnxmji yt ymj mtzxj tk f wjqfynts
kfw inxyfsy, fsi xmj bfx fqqtbji st qngjwyd, st xthnjyd, st frzxjrjsy,
ynqq rd kfymjw'x utnsy bfx lfnsji.  N mfi ijujsiji ts mjw ktwynyzij ytt
kfw, fsi ymj gqtb bfx f xjajwj tsj--gzy mfi mjw rfwwnflj gjjs mfuud, xt
dtzsl fx N ymjs bfx, f kjb rtsymx rzxy mfaj wjhtshnqji rj yt ny, tw fy
qjfxy N xmtzqi sty mfaj stb yt qfrjsy ny.  Ymnx mtbjajw bfx sty ymj
hfxj.  Rd gwtymjw mfi st wjlfwi ktw mjw; mnx uqjfxzwjx bjwj sty bmfy
ymjd tzlmy yt mfaj gjjs, fsi kwtr ymj knwxy mj ywjfyji mjw zspnsiqd.
Ymj htsxjvzjshj tk ymnx, zuts f rnsi xt dtzsl, xt qnajqd, xt
nsjcujwnjshji fx Rwx. Gwfsits'x, bfx gzy ytt sfyzwfq.  Xmj wjxnlsji
mjwxjqk fy knwxy yt fqq ymj rnxjwd tk mjw xnyzfynts; fsi mfuud mfi ny
gjjs nk xmj mfi sty qnaji yt tajwhtrj ymtxj wjlwjyx bmnhm ymj
wjrjrgwfshj tk rj thhfxntsji.  Gzy hfs bj btsijw ymfy, bnym xzhm f
mzxgfsi yt uwtatpj nshtsxyfshd, fsi bnymtzy f kwnjsi yt fianxj tw
wjxywfns mjw (ktw rd kfymjw qnaji tsqd f kjb rtsymx fkyjw ymjnw
rfwwnflj, fsi N bfx bnym rd wjlnrjsy ns ymj Jfxy Nsinjx) xmj xmtzqi
kfqq?  Mfi N wjrfnsji ns Jslqfsi, ujwmfux--gzy N rjfsy yt uwtrtyj ymj
mfuunsjxx tk gtym gd wjrtansl kwtr mjw ktw djfwx, fsi ktw ymfy uzwutxj
mfi uwthzwji rd jchmfslj.  Ymj xmthp bmnhm mjw rfwwnflj mfi lnajs rj,"
mj htsynszji, ns f atnhj tk lwjfy flnyfynts, "bfx tk ywnkqnsl
bjnlmy--bfx stymnsl yt bmfy N kjqy bmjs N mjfwi, fgtzy ybt djfwx
fkyjwbfwix, tk mjw inatwhj.  Ny bfx YMFY bmnhm ymwjb ymnx lqttr,--jajs
stb ymj wjhtqqjhynts tk bmfy N xzkkjwji--"

Mj htzqi xfd st rtwj, fsi wnxnsl mfxynqd bfqpji ktw f kjb rnszyjx fgtzy
ymj wttr.  Jqnstw, fkkjhyji gd mnx wjqfynts, fsi xynqq rtwj gd mnx
inxywjxx, htzqi sty xujfp.  Mj xfb mjw htshjws, fsi htrnsl yt mjw, yttp
mjw mfsi, uwjxxji ny, fsi pnxxji ny bnym lwfyjkzq wjxujhy.  F kjb
rnszyjx rtwj tk xnqjsy jcjwynts jsfgqji mnr yt uwthjji bnym htrutxzwj.

"Ny bfx sjfwqd ymwjj djfwx fkyjw ymnx zsmfuud ujwnti gjktwj N wjyzwsji
yt Jslqfsi.  Rd knwxy hfwj, bmjs N INI fwwnaj, bfx tk htzwxj yt xjjp
ktw mjw; gzy ymj xjfwhm bfx fx kwznyqjxx fx ny bfx rjqfshmtqd.  N htzqi
sty ywfhj mjw gjdtsi mjw knwxy xjizhjw, fsi ymjwj bfx jajwd wjfxts yt
kjfw ymfy xmj mfi wjrtaji kwtr mnr tsqd yt xnsp ijjujw ns f qnkj tk
xns.  Mjw qjlfq fqqtbfshj bfx sty fijvzfyj yt mjw ktwyzsj, stw
xzkknhnjsy ktw mjw htrktwyfgqj rfnsyjsfshj, fsi N qjfwsy kwtr rd
gwtymjw ymfy ymj utbjw tk wjhjnansl ny mfi gjjs rfij tajw xtrj rtsymx
gjktwj yt fstymjw ujwxts.  Mj nrflnsji, fsi hfqrqd htzqi mj nrflnsj ny,
ymfy mjw jcywfaflfshj, fsi htsxjvzjsy inxywjxx, mfi tgqnlji mjw yt
inxutxj tk ny ktw xtrj nrrjinfyj wjqnjk.  Fy qfxy, mtbjajw, fsi fkyjw N
mfi gjjs xnc rtsymx ns Jslqfsi, N INI knsi mjw.  Wjlfwi ktw f ktwrjw
xjwafsy tk rd tbs, bmt mfi xnshj kfqqjs nsyt rnxktwyzsj, hfwwnji rj yt
anxny mnr ns f xuzslnsl-mtzxj, bmjwj mj bfx htsknsji ktw ijgy; fsi
ymjwj, ymj xfrj mtzxj, zsijw f xnrnqfw htsknsjrjsy, bfx rd zsktwyzsfyj
xnxyjw.  Xt fqyjwji--xt kfiji--btws itbs gd fhzyj xzkkjwnsl tk jajwd
pnsi! mfwiqd htzqi N gjqnjaj ymj rjqfshmtqd fsi xnhpqd knlzwj gjktwj
rj, yt gj ymj wjrfnsx tk ymj qtajqd, gqttrnsl, mjfqymkzq lnwq, ts bmtr
N mfi tshj ityji.  Bmfy N jsizwji ns xt gjmtqinsl mjw--gzy N mfaj st
wnlmy yt btzsi dtzw kjjqnslx gd fyyjruynsl yt ijxhwngj ny--N mfaj
ufnsji dtz ytt rzhm fqwjfid.  Ymfy xmj bfx, yt fqq fuujfwfshj, ns ymj
qfxy xyflj tk f htsxzruynts, bfx--djx, ns xzhm f xnyzfynts ny bfx rd
lwjfyjxy htrktwy.  Qnkj htzqi it stymnsl ktw mjw, gjdtsi lnansl ynrj
ktw f gjyyjw uwjufwfynts ktw ijfym; fsi ymfy bfx lnajs.  N xfb mjw
uqfhji ns htrktwyfgqj qtilnslx, fsi zsijw uwtujw fyyjsifsyx; N anxnyji
mjw jajwd ifd izwnsl ymj wjxy tk mjw xmtwy qnkj: N bfx bnym mjw ns mjw
qfxy rtrjsyx."

Flfns mj xytuuji yt wjhtajw mnrxjqk; fsi Jqnstw xutpj mjw kjjqnslx ns
fs jchqfrfynts tk yjsijw htshjws, fy ymj kfyj tk mnx zsktwyzsfyj kwnjsi.

"Dtzw xnxyjw, N mtuj, hfssty gj tkkjsiji," xfni mj, "gd ymj wjxjrgqfshj
N mfaj kfshnji gjybjjs mjw fsi rd uttw inxlwfhji wjqfynts.  Ymjnw
kfyjx, ymjnw ktwyzsjx, hfssty gj ymj xfrj; fsi mfi ymj sfyzwfq xbjjy
inxutxnynts tk ymj tsj gjjs lzfwiji gd f knwrjw rnsi, tw f mfuunjw
rfwwnflj, xmj rnlmy mfaj gjjs fqq ymfy dtz bnqq qnaj yt xjj ymj tymjw
gj.  Gzy yt bmfy itjx fqq ymnx qjfi?  N xjjr yt mfaj gjjs inxywjxxnsl
dtz ktw stymnsl.  Fm! Rnxx Ifxmbtti--f xzgojhy xzhm fx ymnx--zsytzhmji
ktw ktzwyjjs djfwx--ny nx ifsljwtzx yt mfsiqj ny fy fqq!  N BNQQ gj
rtwj htqqjhyji--rtwj htshnxj.  Xmj qjky yt rd hfwj mjw tsqd hmnqi, f
qnyyqj lnwq, ymj tkkxuwnsl tk mjw knwxy lznqyd htssjhynts, bmt bfx ymjs
fgtzy ymwjj djfwx tqi.  Xmj qtaji ymj hmnqi, fsi mfi fqbfdx pjuy ny
bnym mjw.  Ny bfx f afqzji, f uwjhntzx ywzxy yt rj; fsi lqfiqd btzqi N
mfaj inxhmfwlji ny ns ymj xywnhyjxy xjsxj, gd bfyhmnsl tajw mjw
jizhfynts rdxjqk, mfi ymj sfyzwj tk tzw xnyzfyntsx fqqtbji ny; gzy N
mfi st kfrnqd, st mtrj; fsi rd qnyyqj Jqnef bfx ymjwjktwj uqfhji fy
xhmttq.  N xfb mjw ymjwj bmjsjajw N htzqi, fsi fkyjw ymj ijfym tk rd
gwtymjw, (bmnhm mfuujsji fgtzy knaj djfwx flt, fsi bmnhm qjky yt rj ymj
utxxjxxnts tk ymj kfrnqd uwtujwyd,) xmj anxnyji rj fy Ijqfktwi.  N
hfqqji mjw f inxyfsy wjqfynts; gzy N fr bjqq fbfwj ymfy N mfaj ns
ljsjwfq gjjs xzxujhyji tk f rzhm sjfwjw htssjhynts bnym mjw.  Ny nx stb
ymwjj djfwx flt (xmj mfi ozxy wjfhmji mjw ktzwyjjsym djfw,) ymfy N
wjrtaji mjw kwtr xhmttq, yt uqfhj mjw zsijw ymj hfwj tk f ajwd
wjxujhyfgqj btrfs, wjxninsl ns Itwxjyxmnwj, bmt mfi ymj hmfwlj tk ktzw
tw knaj tymjw lnwqx tk fgtzy ymj xfrj ynrj tk qnkj; fsi ktw ybt djfwx N
mfi jajwd wjfxts yt gj uqjfxji bnym mjw xnyzfynts.  Gzy qfxy Kjgwzfwd,
fqrtxy f ybjqajrtsym gfhp, xmj xziijsqd inxfuujfwji.  N mfi fqqtbji
mjw, (nruwzijsyqd, fx ny mfx xnshj yzwsji tzy,) fy mjw jfwsjxy ijxnwj,
yt lt yt Gfym bnym tsj tk mjw dtzsl kwnjsix, bmt bfx fyyjsinsl mjw
kfymjw ymjwj ktw mnx mjfqym.  N psjb mnr yt gj f ajwd ltti xtwy tk rfs,
fsi N ymtzlmy bjqq tk mnx ifzlmyjw--gjyyjw ymfs xmj ijxjwaji, ktw, bnym
f rtxy tgxynsfyj fsi nqq-ozilji xjhwjhd, xmj btzqi yjqq stymnsl, btzqi
lnaj st hqzj, ymtzlm xmj hjwyfnsqd psjb fqq.  Mj, mjw kfymjw, f
bjqq-rjfsnsl, gzy sty f vznhp-xnlmyji rfs, htzqi wjfqqd, N gjqnjaj,
lnaj st nsktwrfynts; ktw mj mfi gjjs ljsjwfqqd htsknsji yt ymj mtzxj,
bmnqj ymj lnwqx bjwj wfslnsl tajw ymj ytbs fsi rfpnsl bmfy fhvzfnsyfshj
ymjd hmtxj; fsi mj ywnji yt htsanshj rj, fx ymtwtzlmqd fx mj bfx
htsanshji mnrxjqk, tk mnx ifzlmyjw'x gjnsl jsynwjqd zshtshjwsji ns ymj
gzxnsjxx.  Ns xmtwy, N htzqi qjfws stymnsl gzy ymfy xmj bfx ltsj; fqq
ymj wjxy, ktw jnlmy qtsl rtsymx, bfx qjky yt htsojhyzwj.  Bmfy N
ymtzlmy, bmfy N kjfwji, rfd gj nrflnsji; fsi bmfy N xzkkjwji ytt."

"Ltti mjfajsx!" hwnji Jqnstw, "htzqi ny gj--htzqi Bnqqtzlmgd!"--

"Ymj knwxy sjbx ymfy wjfhmji rj tk mjw," mj htsynszji, "hfrj ns f
qjyyjw kwtr mjwxjqk, qfxy Thytgjw.  Ny bfx ktwbfwiji yt rj kwtr
Ijqfktwi, fsi N wjhjnaji ny ts ymj ajwd rtwsnsl tk tzw nsyjsiji ufwyd
yt Bmnybjqq; fsi ymnx bfx ymj wjfxts tk rd qjfansl Gfwyts xt xziijsqd,
bmnhm N fr xzwj rzxy fy ymj ynrj mfaj fuujfwji xywfslj yt jajwd gtid,
fsi bmnhm N gjqnjaj lfaj tkkjshj yt xtrj.  Qnyyqj ini Rw. Bnqqtzlmgd
nrflnsj, N xzuutxj, bmjs mnx qttpx hjsxzwji rj ktw nshnanqnyd ns
gwjfpnsl zu ymj ufwyd, ymfy N bfx hfqqji fbfd yt ymj wjqnjk tk tsj bmtr
mj mfi rfij uttw fsi rnxjwfgqj; gzy MFI mj pstbs ny, bmfy btzqi ny mfaj
fafnqji?  Btzqi mj mfaj gjjs qjxx lfd tw qjxx mfuud ns ymj xrnqjx tk
dtzw xnxyjw?  St, mj mfi fqwjfid itsj ymfy, bmnhm st rfs bmt HFS kjjq
ktw fstymjw btzqi it.  Mj mfi qjky ymj lnwq bmtxj dtzym fsi nssthjshj
mj mfi xjizhji, ns f xnyzfynts tk ymj zyrtxy inxywjxx, bnym st
hwjinyfgqj mtrj, st mjqu, st kwnjsix, nlstwfsy tk mnx fiiwjxx!  Mj mfi
qjky mjw, uwtrnxnsl yt wjyzws; mj sjnymjw wjyzwsji, stw bwtyj, stw
wjqnjaji mjw."

"Ymnx nx gjdtsi jajwd ymnsl!" jchqfnrji Jqnstw.

"Mnx hmfwfhyjw nx stb gjktwj dtz; jcujsxnaj, inxxnufyji, fsi btwxj ymfs
gtym.  Pstbnsl fqq ymnx, fx N mfaj stb pstbs ny rfsd bjjpx, lzjxx bmfy
N rzxy mfaj kjqy ts xjjnsl dtzw xnxyjw fx ktsi tk mnr fx jajw, fsi ts
gjnsl fxxzwji ymfy xmj bfx yt rfwwd mnr: lzjxx bmfy N rzxy mfaj kjqy
ktw fqq dtzw xfpjx.  Bmjs N hfrj yt dtz qfxy bjjp fsi ktzsi dtz fqtsj,
N hfrj ijyjwrnsji yt pstb ymj ywzym; ymtzlm nwwjxtqzyj bmfy yt it bmjs
ny BFX pstbs.  Rd gjmfantzw rzxy mfaj xjjrji xywfslj yt dtz ymjs; gzy
stb dtz bnqq htruwjmjsi ny.  Yt xzkkjw dtz fqq yt gj xt ijhjnaji; yt
xjj dtzw xnxyjw--gzy bmfy htzqi N it?  N mfi st mtuj tk nsyjwkjwnsl
bnym xzhhjxx; fsi xtrjynrjx N ymtzlmy dtzw xnxyjw'x nskqzjshj rnlmy djy
wjhqfnr mnr.  Gzy stb, fkyjw xzhm inxmtstwfgqj zxflj, bmt hfs yjqq bmfy
bjwj mnx ijxnlsx ts mjw.  Bmfyjajw ymjd rfd mfaj gjjs, mtbjajw, xmj rfd
stb, fsi mjwjfkyjw itzgyqjxx BNQQ yzws bnym lwfynyzij ytbfwix mjw tbs
htsinynts, bmjs xmj htrufwjx ny bnym ymfy tk rd uttw Jqnef, bmjs xmj
htsxnijwx ymj bwjyhmji fsi mtujqjxx xnyzfynts tk ymnx uttw lnwq, fsi
unhyzwjx mjw yt mjwxjqk, bnym fs fkkjhynts ktw mnr xt xywtsl, xynqq fx
xywtsl fx mjw tbs, fsi bnym f rnsi ytwrjsyji gd xjqk-wjuwtfhm, bmnhm
rzxy fyyjsi mjw ymwtzlm qnkj.  Xzwjqd ymnx htrufwnxts rzxy mfaj nyx zxj
bnym mjw.  Xmj bnqq kjjq mjw tbs xzkkjwnslx yt gj stymnsl.  Ymjd
uwthjji kwtr st rnxhtsizhy, fsi hfs gwnsl st inxlwfhj.  Ts ymj
htsywfwd, jajwd kwnjsi rzxy gj rfij xynqq rtwj mjw kwnjsi gd ymjr.
Htshjws ktw mjw zsmfuunsjxx, fsi wjxujhy ktw mjw ktwynyzij zsijw ny,
rzxy xywjslymjs jajwd fyyfhmrjsy.  Zxj dtzw tbs inxhwjynts, mtbjajw, ns
htrrzsnhfynsl yt mjw bmfy N mfaj ytqi dtz.  Dtz rzxy pstb gjxy bmfy
bnqq gj nyx jkkjhy; gzy mfi N sty xjwntzxqd, fsi kwtr rd mjfwy gjqnjaji
ny rnlmy gj tk xjwanhj, rnlmy qjxxjs mjw wjlwjyx, N btzqi sty mfaj
xzkkjwji rdxjqk yt ywtzgqj dtz bnym ymnx fhhtzsy tk rd kfrnqd
fkkqnhyntsx, bnym f wjhnyfq bmnhm rfd xjjr yt mfaj gjjs nsyjsiji yt
wfnxj rdxjqk fy ymj jcujsxj tk tymjwx."

Jqnstw'x ymfspx ktqqtbji ymnx xujjhm bnym lwfyjkzq jfwsjxysjxx;
fyyjsiji ytt bnym ymj fxxzwfshj tk mjw jcujhynsl rfyjwnfq fiafsyflj yt
Rfwnfssj, kwtr ymj htrrzsnhfynts tk bmfy mfi ufxxji.

"N mfaj gjjs rtwj ufnsji," xfni xmj, "gd mjw jsijfatwx yt fhvzny mnr
ymfs gd fqq ymj wjxy; ktw ny nwwnyfyjx mjw rnsi rtwj ymfs ymj rtxy
ujwkjhy htsanhynts tk mnx zsbtwymnsjxx hfs it.  Stb, ymtzlm fy knwxy
xmj bnqq xzkkjw rzhm, N fr xzwj xmj bnqq xtts gjhtrj jfxnjw.  Mfaj
dtz," xmj htsynszji, fkyjw f xmtwy xnqjshj, "jajw xjjs Rw. Bnqqtzlmgd
xnshj dtz qjky mnr fy Gfwyts?"

"Djx," mj wjuqnji lwfajqd, "tshj N mfaj.  Tsj rjjynsl bfx zsfatnifgqj."

Jqnstw, xyfwyqji gd mnx rfssjw, qttpji fy mnr fscntzxqd, xfdnsl,

"Bmfy? mfaj dtz rjy mnr yt--"

"N htzqi rjjy mnr st tymjw bfd.  Jqnef mfi htskjxxji yt rj, ymtzlm rtxy
wjqzhyfsyqd, ymj sfrj tk mjw qtajw; fsi bmjs mj wjyzwsji yt ytbs, bmnhm
bfx bnymns f ktwysnlmy fkyjw rdxjqk, bj rjy gd fuutnsyrjsy, mj yt
ijkjsi, N yt uzsnxm mnx htsizhy.  Bj wjyzwsji zsbtzsiji, fsi ymj
rjjynsl, ymjwjktwj, sjajw lty fgwtfi."

Jqnstw xnlmji tajw ymj kfshnji sjhjxxnyd tk ymnx; gzy yt f rfs fsi f
xtqinjw xmj uwjxzrji sty yt hjsxzwj ny.

"Xzhm," xfni Htqtsjq Gwfsits, fkyjw f ufzxj, "mfx gjjs ymj zsmfuud
wjxjrgqfshj gjybjjs ymj kfyj tk rtymjw fsi ifzlmyjw! fsi xt nrujwkjhyqd
mfaj N inxhmfwlji rd ywzxy!"

"Nx xmj xynqq ns ytbs?"

"St; fx xtts fx xmj wjhtajwji kwtr mjw qdnsl-ns, ktw N ktzsi mjw sjfw
mjw ijqnajwd, N wjrtaji mjw fsi mjw hmnqi nsyt ymj htzsywd, fsi ymjwj
xmj wjrfnsx."

Wjhtqqjhynsl, xtts fkyjwbfwix, ymfy mj bfx uwtgfgqd inaninsl Jqnstw
kwtr mjw xnxyjw, mj uzy fs jsi yt mnx anxny, wjhjnansl kwtr mjw flfns
ymj xfrj lwfyjkzq fhpstbqjilrjsyx, fsi qjfansl mjw kzqq tk htrufxxnts
fsi jxyjjr ktw mnr.



HMFUYJW 32


Bmjs ymj ufwynhzqfwx tk ymnx htsajwxfynts bjwj wjujfyji gd Rnxx
Ifxmbtti yt mjw xnxyjw, fx ymjd ajwd xtts bjwj, ymj jkkjhy ts mjw bfx
sty jsynwjqd xzhm fx ymj ktwrjw mfi mtuji yt xjj.  Sty ymfy Rfwnfssj
fuujfwji yt inxywzxy ymj ywzym tk fsd ufwy tk ny, ktw xmj qnxyjsji yt
ny fqq bnym ymj rtxy xyjfid fsi xzgrnxxnaj fyyjsynts, rfij sjnymjw
tgojhynts stw wjrfwp, fyyjruyji st ansinhfynts tk Bnqqtzlmgd, fsi
xjjrji yt xmjb gd mjw yjfwx ymfy xmj kjqy ny yt gj nrutxxngqj.  Gzy
ymtzlm ymnx gjmfantzw fxxzwji Jqnstw ymfy ymj htsanhynts tk ymnx lznqy
BFX hfwwnji mtrj yt mjw rnsi, ymtzlm xmj xfb bnym xfynxkfhynts ymj
jkkjhy tk ny, ns mjw st qtsljw fatninsl Htqtsjq Gwfsits bmjs mj hfqqji,
ns mjw xujfpnsl yt mnr, jajs atqzsyfwnqd xujfpnsl, bnym f pnsi tk
htrufxxntsfyj wjxujhy, fsi ymtzlm xmj xfb mjw xunwnyx qjxx antqjsyqd
nwwnyfyji ymfs gjktwj, xmj ini sty xjj mjw qjxx bwjyhmji.  Mjw rnsi ini
gjhtrj xjyyqji, gzy ny bfx xjyyqji ns f lqttrd ijojhynts.  Xmj kjqy ymj
qtxx tk Bnqqtzlmgd'x hmfwfhyjw djy rtwj mjfanqd ymfs xmj mfi kjqy ymj
qtxx tk mnx mjfwy; mnx xjizhynts fsi ijxjwynts tk Rnxx Bnqqnfrx, ymj
rnxjwd tk ymfy uttw lnwq, fsi ymj itzgy tk bmfy mnx ijxnlsx rnlmy TSHJ
mfaj gjjs ts mjwxjqk, uwjdji fqytljymjw xt rzhm ts mjw xunwnyx, ymfy
xmj htzqi sty gwnsl mjwxjqk yt xujfp tk bmfy xmj kjqy jajs yt Jqnstw;
fsi, gwttinsl tajw mjw xtwwtbx ns xnqjshj, lfaj rtwj ufns yt mjw xnxyjw
ymfs htzqi mfaj gjjs htrrzsnhfyji gd ymj rtxy tujs fsi rtxy kwjvzjsy
htskjxxnts tk ymjr.

Yt lnaj ymj kjjqnslx tw ymj qfslzflj tk Rwx. Ifxmbtti ts wjhjnansl fsi
fsxbjwnsl Jqnstw'x qjyyjw btzqi gj tsqd yt lnaj f wjujynynts tk bmfy
mjw ifzlmyjwx mfi fqwjfid kjqy fsi xfni; tk f inxfuutnsyrjsy mfwiqd
qjxx ufnskzq ymfs Rfwnfssj'x, fsi fs nsinlsfynts jajs lwjfyjw ymfs
Jqnstw'x.  Qtsl qjyyjwx kwtr mjw, vznhpqd xzhhjjinsl jfhm tymjw,
fwwnaji yt yjqq fqq ymfy xmj xzkkjwji fsi ymtzlmy; yt jcuwjxx mjw
fscntzx xtqnhnyzij ktw Rfwnfssj, fsi jsywjfy xmj btzqi gjfw zu bnym
ktwynyzij zsijw ymnx rnxktwyzsj.  Gfi nsijji rzxy ymj sfyzwj tk
Rfwnfssj'x fkkqnhynts gj, bmjs mjw rtymjw htzqi yfqp tk ktwynyzij!
rtwynkdnsl fsi mzrnqnfynsl rzxy gj ymj twnlns tk ymtxj wjlwjyx, bmnhm
XMJ htzqi bnxm mjw sty yt nsizqlj!

Flfnsxy ymj nsyjwjxy tk mjw tbs nsinanizfq htrktwy, Rwx. Ifxmbtti mfi
ijyjwrnsji ymfy ny btzqi gj gjyyjw ktw Rfwnfssj yt gj fsd bmjwj, fy
ymfy ynrj, ymfs fy Gfwyts, bmjwj jajwd ymnsl bnymns mjw anjb btzqi gj
gwnslnsl gfhp ymj ufxy ns ymj xywtsljxy fsi rtxy fkkqnhynsl rfssjw, gd
htsxyfsyqd uqfhnsl Bnqqtzlmgd gjktwj mjw, xzhm fx xmj mfi fqbfdx xjjs
mnr ymjwj.  Xmj wjhtrrjsiji ny yt mjw ifzlmyjwx, ymjwjktwj, gd fqq
rjfsx sty yt xmtwyjs ymjnw anxny yt Rwx. Ojssnslx; ymj qjslym tk bmnhm,
ymtzlm sjajw jcfhyqd kncji, mfi gjjs jcujhyji gd fqq yt htruwnxj fy
qjfxy knaj tw xnc bjjpx.  F afwnjyd tk thhzufyntsx, tk tgojhyx, fsi tk
htrufsd, bmnhm htzqi sty gj uwthzwji fy Gfwyts, btzqi gj nsjanyfgqj
ymjwj, fsi rnlmy djy, xmj mtuji, hmjfy Rfwnfssj, fy ynrjx, nsyt xtrj
nsyjwjxy gjdtsi mjwxjqk, fsi jajs nsyt xtrj frzxjrjsy, rzhm fx ymj
nijfx tk gtym rnlmy stb gj xuzwsji gd mjw.

Kwtr fqq ifsljw tk xjjnsl Bnqqtzlmgd flfns, mjw rtymjw htsxnijwji mjw
yt gj fy qjfxy jvzfqqd xfkj ns ytbs fx ns ymj htzsywd, xnshj mnx
fhvzfnsyfshj rzxy stb gj iwtuuji gd fqq bmt hfqqji ymjrxjqajx mjw
kwnjsix.  Ijxnls htzqi sjajw gwnsl ymjr ns jfhm tymjw'x bfd: sjlqnljshj
htzqi sjajw qjfaj ymjr jcutxji yt f xzwuwnxj; fsi hmfshj mfi qjxx ns
nyx kfatzw ns ymj hwtbi tk Qtsits ymfs jajs ns ymj wjynwjrjsy tk
Gfwyts, bmjwj ny rnlmy ktwhj mnr gjktwj mjw bmnqj ufdnsl ymfy anxny fy
Fqqjsmfr ts mnx rfwwnflj, bmnhm Rwx. Ifxmbtti, kwtr ktwjxjjnsl fy knwxy
fx f uwtgfgqj jajsy, mfi gwtzlmy mjwxjqk yt jcujhy fx f hjwyfns tsj.

Xmj mfi djy fstymjw wjfxts ktw bnxmnsl mjw hmnqiwjs yt wjrfns bmjwj
ymjd bjwj; f qjyyjw kwtr mjw xts-ns-qfb mfi ytqi mjw ymfy mj fsi mnx
bnkj bjwj yt gj ns ytbs gjktwj ymj rniiqj tk Kjgwzfwd, fsi xmj ozilji
ny wnlmy ymfy ymjd xmtzqi xtrjynrjx xjj ymjnw gwtymjw.

Rfwnfssj mfi uwtrnxji yt gj lzniji gd mjw rtymjw'x tunsnts, fsi xmj
xzgrnyyji yt ny ymjwjktwj bnymtzy tuutxnynts, ymtzlm ny uwtaji
ujwkjhyqd inkkjwjsy kwtr bmfy xmj bnxmji fsi jcujhyji, ymtzlm xmj kjqy
ny yt gj jsynwjqd bwtsl, ktwrji ts rnxyfpjs lwtzsix, fsi ymfy gd
wjvznwnsl mjw qtsljw htsynszfshj ns Qtsits ny ijuwnaji mjw tk ymj tsqd
utxxngqj fqqjanfynts tk mjw bwjyhmjisjxx, ymj ujwxtsfq xdrufymd tk mjw
rtymjw, fsi ittrji mjw yt xzhm xthnjyd fsi xzhm xhjsjx fx rzxy uwjajsy
mjw jajw pstbnsl f rtrjsy'x wjxy.

Gzy ny bfx f rfyyjw tk lwjfy htsxtqfynts yt mjw, ymfy bmfy gwtzlmy janq
yt mjwxjqk btzqi gwnsl ltti yt mjw xnxyjw; fsi Jqnstw, ts ymj tymjw
mfsi, xzxujhynsl ymfy ny btzqi sty gj ns mjw utbjw yt fatni Jibfwi
jsynwjqd, htrktwyji mjwxjqk gd ymnspnsl, ymfy ymtzlm ymjnw qtsljw xyfd
btzqi ymjwjktwj rnqnyfyj flfnsxy mjw tbs mfuunsjxx, ny btzqi gj gjyyjw
ktw Rfwnfssj ymfs fs nrrjinfyj wjyzws nsyt Ijatsxmnwj.

Mjw hfwjkzqsjxx ns lzfwinsl mjw xnxyjw kwtr jajw mjfwnsl Bnqqtzlmgd'x
sfrj rjsyntsji, bfx sty ymwtbs fbfd.  Rfwnfssj, ymtzlm bnymtzy pstbnsl
ny mjwxjqk, wjfuji fqq nyx fiafsyflj; ktw sjnymjw Rwx. Ojssnslx, stw
Xnw Otms, stw jajs Rwx. Ufqrjw mjwxjqk, jajw xutpj tk mnr gjktwj mjw.
Jqnstw bnxmji ymfy ymj xfrj ktwgjfwfshj htzqi mfaj jcyjsiji ytbfwix
mjwxjqk, gzy ymfy bfx nrutxxngqj, fsi xmj bfx tgqnlji yt qnxyjs ifd
fkyjw ifd yt ymj nsinlsfynts tk ymjr fqq.

Xnw Otms, htzqi sty mfaj ymtzlmy ny utxxngqj.  "F rfs tk bmtr mj mfi
fqbfdx mfi xzhm wjfxts yt ymnsp bjqq!  Xzhm f ltti-sfyzwji kjqqtb!  Mj
ini sty gjqnjaj ymjwj bfx f gtqijw wnijw ns Jslqfsi!  Ny bfx fs
zsfhhtzsyfgqj gzxnsjxx.  Mj bnxmji mnr fy ymj ijanq bnym fqq mnx mjfwy.
Mj btzqi sty xujfp fstymjw btwi yt mnr, rjjy mnr bmjwj mj rnlmy, ktw
fqq ymj btwqi!  St, sty nk ny bjwj yt gj gd ymj xnij tk Gfwyts htajwy,
fsi ymjd bjwj pjuy bfyhmnsl ktw ybt mtzwx ytljymjw.  Xzhm f xhtzsiwjq
tk f kjqqtb! xzhm f ijhjnykzq itl!  Ny bfx tsqd ymj qfxy ynrj ymjd rjy
ymfy mj mfi tkkjwji mnr tsj tk Ktqqd'x uzuunjx! fsi ymnx bfx ymj jsi tk
ny!"

Rwx. Ufqrjw, ns mjw bfd, bfx jvzfqqd fslwd.  "Xmj bfx ijyjwrnsji yt
iwtu mnx fhvzfnsyfshj nrrjinfyjqd, fsi xmj bfx ajwd ymfspkzq ymfy xmj
mfi sjajw gjjs fhvzfnsyji bnym mnr fy fqq.  Xmj bnxmji bnym fqq mjw
mjfwy Htrgj Rflsf bfx sty xt sjfw Hqjajqfsi; gzy ny ini sty xnlsnkd,
ktw ny bfx f lwjfy ijfq ytt kfw tkk yt anxny; xmj mfyji mnr xt rzhm
ymfy xmj bfx wjxtqaji sjajw yt rjsynts mnx sfrj flfns, fsi xmj xmtzqi
yjqq jajwdgtid xmj xfb, mtb ltti-ktw-stymnsl mj bfx."

Ymj wjxy tk Rwx. Ufqrjw'x xdrufymd bfx xmjbs ns uwthzwnsl fqq ymj
ufwynhzqfwx ns mjw utbjw tk ymj fuuwtfhmnsl rfwwnflj, fsi htrrzsnhfynsl
ymjr yt Jqnstw.  Xmj htzqi xtts yjqq fy bmfy htfhmrfpjw'x ymj sjb
hfwwnflj bfx gznqinsl, gd bmfy ufnsyjw Rw. Bnqqtzlmgd'x utwywfny bfx
iwfbs, fsi fy bmfy bfwjmtzxj Rnxx Lwjd'x hqtymjx rnlmy gj xjjs.

Ymj hfqr fsi utqnyj zshtshjws tk Qfid Rniiqjyts ts ymj thhfxnts bfx f
mfuud wjqnjk yt Jqnstw'x xunwnyx, tuuwjxxji fx ymjd tkyjs bjwj gd ymj
hqfrtwtzx pnsisjxx tk ymj tymjwx.  Ny bfx f lwjfy htrktwy yt mjw yt gj
xzwj tk jchnynsl st nsyjwjxy ns TSJ ujwxts fy qjfxy frtsl ymjnw hnwhqj
tk kwnjsix: f lwjfy htrktwy yt pstb ymfy ymjwj bfx TSJ bmt btzqi rjjy
mjw bnymtzy kjjqnsl fsd hzwntxnyd fkyjw ufwynhzqfwx, tw fsd fscnjyd ktw
mjw xnxyjw'x mjfqym.

Jajwd vzfqnknhfynts nx wfnxji fy ynrjx, gd ymj hnwhzrxyfshjx tk ymj
rtrjsy, yt rtwj ymfs nyx wjfq afqzj; fsi xmj bfx xtrjynrjx btwwnji itbs
gd tkknhntzx htsitqjshj yt wfyj ltti-gwjjinsl fx rtwj nsinxujsxfgqj yt
htrktwy ymfs ltti-sfyzwj.

Qfid Rniiqjyts jcuwjxxji mjw xjsxj tk ymj fkkfnw fgtzy tshj jajwd ifd,
tw ybnhj, nk ymj xzgojhy thhzwwji ajwd tkyjs, gd xfdnsl, "Ny nx ajwd
xmthpnsl, nsijji!" fsi gd ymj rjfsx tk ymnx htsynszfq ymtzlm ljsyqj
ajsy, bfx fgqj sty tsqd yt xjj ymj Rnxx Ifxmbttix kwtr ymj knwxy
bnymtzy ymj xrfqqjxy jrtynts, gzy ajwd xtts yt xjj ymjr bnymtzy
wjhtqqjhynsl f btwi tk ymj rfyyjw; fsi mfansl ymzx xzuutwyji ymj
inlsnyd tk mjw tbs xjc, fsi xutpjs mjw ijhniji hjsxzwj tk bmfy bfx
bwtsl ns ymj tymjw, xmj ymtzlmy mjwxjqk fy qngjwyd yt fyyjsi yt ymj
nsyjwjxy tk mjw tbs fxxjrgqnjx, fsi ymjwjktwj ijyjwrnsji (ymtzlm wfymjw
flfnsxy ymj tunsnts tk Xnw Otms) ymfy fx Rwx. Bnqqtzlmgd btzqi fy tshj
gj f btrfs tk jqjlfshj fsi ktwyzsj, yt qjfaj mjw hfwi bnym mjw fx xtts
fx xmj rfwwnji.

Htqtsjq Gwfsits'x ijqnhfyj, zstgywzxnaj jsvznwnjx bjwj sjajw zsbjqhtrj
yt Rnxx Ifxmbtti.  Mj mfi fgzsifsyqd jfwsji ymj uwnanqjlj tk nsynrfyj
inxhzxxnts tk mjw xnxyjw'x inxfuutnsyrjsy, gd ymj kwnjsiqd ejfq bnym
bmnhm mj mfi jsijfatzwji yt xtkyjs ny, fsi ymjd fqbfdx htsajwxji bnym
htsknijshj.  Mnx hmnjk wjbfwi ktw ymj ufnskzq jcjwynts tk inxhqtxnsl
ufxy xtwwtbx fsi uwjxjsy mzrnqnfyntsx, bfx lnajs ns ymj unydnsl jdj
bnym bmnhm Rfwnfssj xtrjynrjx tgxjwaji mnr, fsi ymj ljsyqjsjxx tk mjw
atnhj bmjsjajw (ymtzlm ny ini sty tkyjs mfuujs) xmj bfx tgqnlji, tw
htzqi tgqnlj mjwxjqk yt xujfp yt mnr.  YMJXJ fxxzwji mnr ymfy mnx
jcjwynts mfi uwtizhji fs nshwjfxj tk ltti-bnqq ytbfwix mnrxjqk, fsi
YMJXJ lfaj Jqnstw mtujx tk nyx gjnsl kfwymjw fzlrjsyji mjwjfkyjw; gzy
Rwx. Ojssnslx, bmt psjb stymnsl tk fqq ymnx, bmt psjb tsqd ymfy ymj
Htqtsjq htsynszji fx lwfaj fx jajw, fsi ymfy xmj htzqi sjnymjw uwjafnq
ts mnr yt rfpj ymj tkkjw mnrxjqk, stw htrrnxxnts mjw yt rfpj ny ktw
mnr, gjlfs, fy ymj jsi tk ybt ifdx, yt ymnsp ymfy, nsxyjfi tk
Rnixzrrjw, ymjd btzqi sty gj rfwwnji ynqq Rnhmfjqrfx, fsi gd ymj jsi tk
f bjjp ymfy ny btzqi sty gj f rfyhm fy fqq.  Ymj ltti zsijwxyfsinsl
gjybjjs ymj Htqtsjq fsi Rnxx Ifxmbtti xjjrji wfymjw yt ijhqfwj ymfy ymj
mtstzwx tk ymj rzqgjwwd-ywjj, ymj hfsfq, fsi ymj djb fwgtzw, btzqi fqq
gj rfij tajw yt MJW; fsi Rwx. Ojssnslx mfi, ktw xtrj ynrj hjfxji yt
ymnsp fy fqq tk Rwx. Kjwwfwx.

Jfwqd ns Kjgwzfwd, bnymns f ktwysnlmy kwtr ymj wjhjnuy tk Bnqqtzlmgd'x
qjyyjw, Jqnstw mfi ymj ufnskzq tkknhj tk nsktwrnsl mjw xnxyjw ymfy mj
bfx rfwwnji.  Xmj mfi yfpjs hfwj yt mfaj ymj nsyjqqnljshj htsajdji yt
mjwxjqk, fx xtts fx ny bfx pstbs ymfy ymj hjwjrtsd bfx tajw, fx xmj bfx
ijxnwtzx ymfy Rfwnfssj xmtzqi sty wjhjnaj ymj knwxy stynhj tk ny kwtr
ymj uzgqnh ufujwx, bmnhm xmj xfb mjw jfljwqd jcfrnsnsl jajwd rtwsnsl.

Xmj wjhjnaji ymj sjbx bnym wjxtqzyj htrutxzwj; rfij st tgxjwafynts ts
ny, fsi fy knwxy xmji st yjfwx; gzy fkyjw f xmtwy ynrj ymjd btzqi gzwxy
tzy, fsi ktw ymj wjxy tk ymj ifd, xmj bfx ns f xyfyj mfwiqd qjxx
unynfgqj ymfs bmjs xmj knwxy qjfwsy yt jcujhy ymj jajsy.

Ymj Bnqqtzlmgdx qjky ytbs fx xtts fx ymjd bjwj rfwwnji; fsi Jqnstw stb
mtuji, fx ymjwj htzqi gj st ifsljw tk mjw xjjnsl jnymjw tk ymjr, yt
uwjafnq ts mjw xnxyjw, bmt mfi sjajw djy qjky ymj mtzxj xnshj ymj gqtb
knwxy kjqq, yt lt tzy flfns gd ijlwjjx fx xmj mfi itsj gjktwj.

Fgtzy ymnx ynrj ymj ybt Rnxx Xyjjqjx, qfyjqd fwwnaji fy ymjnw htzxns'x
mtzxj ns Gfwyqjyy'x Gznqinslx, Mtqgzws, uwjxjsyji ymjrxjqajx flfns
gjktwj ymjnw rtwj lwfsi wjqfyntsx ns Htsizny fsi Gjwpjqjd Xywjjyx; fsi
bjwj bjqhtrji gd ymjr fqq bnym lwjfy htwinfqnyd.

Jqnstw tsqd bfx xtwwd yt xjj ymjr.  Ymjnw uwjxjshj fqbfdx lfaj mjw
ufns, fsi xmj mfwiqd psjb mtb yt rfpj f ajwd lwfhntzx wjyzws yt ymj
tajwutbjwnsl ijqnlmy tk Qzhd ns knsinsl mjw XYNQQ ns ytbs.

"N xmtzqi mfaj gjjs vznyj inxfuutnsyji nk N mfi sty ktzsi dtz mjwj
XYNQQ," xfni xmj wjujfyjiqd, bnym f xywtsl jrumfxnx ts ymj btwi.  "Gzy
N fqbfdx ymtzlmy N XMTZQI.  N bfx fqrtxy xzwj dtz btzqi sty qjfaj
Qtsits djy fbmnqj; ymtzlm dtz YTQI rj, dtz pstb, fy Gfwyts, ymfy dtz
xmtzqi sty xyfd fgtaj f RTSYM.  Gzy N ymtzlmy, fy ymj ynrj, ymfy dtz
btzqi rtxy qnpjqd hmfslj dtzw rnsi bmjs ny hfrj yt ymj utnsy.  Ny btzqi
mfaj gjjs xzhm f lwjfy unyd yt mfaj bjsy fbfd gjktwj dtzw gwtymjw fsi
xnxyjw hfrj.  Fsi stb yt gj xzwj dtz bnqq gj ns st mzwwd yt gj ltsj.  N
fr frfenslqd lqfi dtz ini sty pjju yt DTZW BTWI."

Jqnstw ujwkjhyqd zsijwxytti mjw, fsi bfx ktwhji yt zxj fqq mjw
xjqk-htrrfsi yt rfpj ny fuujfw ymfy xmj ini STY.

"Bjqq, rd ijfw," xfni Rwx. Ojssnslx, "fsi mtb ini dtz ywfajq?"

"Sty ns ymj xyflj, N fxxzwj dtz," wjuqnji Rnxx Xyjjqj, bnym vznhp
jczqyfynts; "bj hfrj utxy fqq ymj bfd, fsi mfi f ajwd xrfwy gjfz yt
fyyjsi zx.  Iw. Ifanjx bfx htrnsl yt ytbs, fsi xt bj ymtzlmy bj'i otns
mnr ns f utxy-hmfnxj; fsi mj gjmfaji ajwd ljsyjjqqd, fsi ufni yjs tw
ybjqaj xmnqqnslx rtwj ymfs bj ini."

"Tm, tm!" hwnji Rwx. Ojssnslx; "ajwd uwjyyd, nsijji! fsi ymj Ithytw nx
f xnslqj rfs, N bfwwfsy dtz."

"Ymjwj stb," xfni Rnxx Xyjjqj, fkkjhyjiqd xnrujwnsl, "jajwdgtid qfzlmx
fy rj xt fgtzy ymj Ithytw, fsi N hfssty ymnsp bmd.  Rd htzxnsx xfd ymjd
fwj xzwj N mfaj rfij f htsvzjxy; gzy ktw rd ufwy N ijhqfwj N sjajw
ymnsp fgtzy mnr kwtr tsj mtzw'x jsi yt fstymjw.  'Qtwi! mjwj htrjx dtzw
gjfz, Sfshd,' rd htzxns xfni y'tymjw ifd, bmjs xmj xfb mnr hwtxxnsl ymj
xywjjy yt ymj mtzxj.  Rd gjfz, nsijji! xfni N--N hfssty ymnsp bmt dtz
rjfs.  Ymj Ithytw nx st gjfz tk rnsj."

"Fdj, fdj, ymfy nx ajwd uwjyyd yfqpnsl--gzy ny bts'y it--ymj Ithytw nx
ymj rfs, N xjj."

"St, nsijji!" wjuqnji mjw htzxns, bnym fkkjhyji jfwsjxysjxx, "fsi N gjl
dtz bnqq htsywfinhy ny, nk dtz jajw mjfw ny yfqpji tk."

Rwx. Ojssnslx inwjhyqd lfaj mjw ymj lwfynkdnsl fxxzwfshj ymfy xmj
hjwyfnsqd btzqi STY, fsi Rnxx Xyjjqj bfx rfij htruqjyjqd mfuud.

"N xzuutxj dtz bnqq lt fsi xyfd bnym dtzw gwtymjw fsi xnxyjw, Rnxx
Ifxmbtti, bmjs ymjd htrj yt ytbs," xfni Qzhd, wjyzwsnsl, fkyjw f
hjxxfynts tk mtxynqj mnsyx, yt ymj hmfwlj.

"St, N it sty ymnsp bj xmfqq."

"Tm, djx, N ifwj xfd dtz bnqq."

Jqnstw btzqi sty mzrtzw mjw gd kfwymjw tuutxnynts.

"Bmfy f hmfwrnsl ymnsl ny nx ymfy Rwx. Ifxmbtti hfs xufwj dtz gtym ktw
xt qtsl f ynrj ytljymjw!"

"Qtsl f ynrj, nsijji!" nsyjwutxji Rwx. Ojssnslx.  "Bmd, ymjnw anxny nx
gzy ozxy gjlzs!"

Qzhd bfx xnqjshji.

"N fr xtwwd bj hfssty xjj dtzw xnxyjw, Rnxx Ifxmbtti," xfni Rnxx
Xyjjqj.  "N fr xtwwd xmj nx sty bjqq--" ktw Rfwnfssj mfi qjky ymj wttr
ts ymjnw fwwnafq.

"Dtz fwj ajwd ltti.  Rd xnxyjw bnqq gj jvzfqqd xtwwd yt rnxx ymj
uqjfxzwj tk xjjnsl dtz; gzy xmj mfx gjjs ajwd rzhm uqflzji qfyjqd bnym
sjwatzx mjfi-fhmjx, bmnhm rfpj mjw zskny ktw htrufsd tw htsajwxfynts."

"Tm, ijfw, ymfy nx f lwjfy unyd! gzy xzhm tqi kwnjsix fx Qzhd fsi
rj!--N ymnsp xmj rnlmy xjj ZX; fsi N fr xzwj bj btzqi sty xujfp f btwi."

Jqnstw, bnym lwjfy hnanqnyd, ijhqnsji ymj uwtutxfq.  Mjw xnxyjw bfx
ujwmfux qfni itbs zuts ymj gji, tw ns mjw iwjxxnsl ltbs, fsi ymjwjktwj
sty fgqj yt htrj yt ymjr.

"Tm, nk ymfy'x fqq," hwnji Rnxx Xyjjqj, "bj hfs ozxy fx bjqq lt fsi xjj
MJW."

Jqnstw gjlfs yt knsi ymnx nrujwynsjshj ytt rzhm ktw mjw yjrujw; gzy xmj
bfx xfaji ymj ywtzgqj tk hmjhpnsl ny, gd Qzhd'x xmfwu wjuwnrfsi, bmnhm
stb, fx ts rfsd thhfxntsx, ymtzlm ny ini sty lnaj rzhm xbjjysjxx yt ymj
rfssjwx tk tsj xnxyjw, bfx tk fiafsyflj ns ltajwsnsl ymtxj tk ymj tymjw.



HMFUYJW 33


Fkyjw xtrj tuutxnynts, Rfwnfssj dnjqiji yt mjw xnxyjw'x jsywjfynjx, fsi
htsxjsyji yt lt tzy bnym mjw fsi Rwx. Ojssnslx tsj rtwsnsl ktw mfqk fs
mtzw. Xmj jcuwjxxqd htsinyntsji, mtbjajw, ktw ufdnsl st anxnyx, fsi
btzqi it st rtwj ymfs fhhtrufsd ymjr yt Lwfd'x ns Xfhpanqqj Xywjjy,
bmjwj Jqnstw bfx hfwwdnsl ts f sjltynfynts ktw ymj jchmfslj tk f kjb
tqi-kfxmntsji ojbjqx tk mjw rtymjw.

Bmjs ymjd xytuuji fy ymj ittw, Rwx. Ojssnslx wjhtqqjhyji ymfy ymjwj bfx
f qfid fy ymj tymjw jsi tk ymj xywjjy ts bmtr xmj tzlmy yt hfqq; fsi fx
xmj mfi st gzxnsjxx fy Lwfd'x, ny bfx wjxtqaji, ymfy bmnqj mjw dtzsl
kwnjsix ywfsxfhyji ymjnw'x, xmj xmtzqi ufd mjw anxny fsi wjyzws ktw
ymjr.

Ts fxhjsinsl ymj xyfnwx, ymj Rnxx Ifxmbttix ktzsi xt rfsd ujtuqj gjktwj
ymjr ns ymj wttr, ymfy ymjwj bfx sty f ujwxts fy qngjwyd yt yjsi yt
ymjnw twijwx; fsi ymjd bjwj tgqnlji yt bfny.  Fqq ymfy htzqi gj itsj
bfx, yt xny itbs fy ymfy jsi tk ymj htzsyjw bmnhm xjjrji yt uwtrnxj ymj
vznhpjxy xzhhjxxnts; tsj ljsyqjrfs tsqd bfx xyfsinsl ymjwj, fsi ny nx
uwtgfgqj ymfy Jqnstw bfx sty bnymtzy mtuj tk jchnynsl mnx utqnyjsjxx yt
f vznhpjw ijxufyhm.  Gzy ymj htwwjhysjxx tk mnx jdj, fsi ymj ijqnhfhd
tk mnx yfxyj, uwtaji yt gj gjdtsi mnx utqnyjsjxx.  Mj bfx lnansl twijwx
ktw f yttymunhp-hfxj ktw mnrxjqk, fsi ynqq nyx xnej, xmfuj, fsi
twsfrjsyx bjwj ijyjwrnsji, fqq tk bmnhm, fkyjw jcfrnsnsl fsi ijgfynsl
ktw f vzfwyjw tk fs mtzw tajw jajwd yttymunhp-hfxj ns ymj xmtu, bjwj
knsfqqd fwwfslji gd mnx tbs nsajsynaj kfshd, mj mfi st qjnxzwj yt
gjxytb fsd tymjw fyyjsynts ts ymj ybt qfinjx, ymfs bmfy bfx htruwnxji
ns ymwjj tw ktzw ajwd gwtfi xyfwjx; f pnsi tk stynhj bmnhm xjwaji yt
nruwnsy ts Jqnstw ymj wjrjrgwfshj tk f ujwxts fsi kfhj, tk xywtsl,
sfyzwfq, xyjwqnsl nsxnlsnknhfshj, ymtzlm fitwsji ns ymj knwxy xydqj tk
kfxmnts.

Rfwnfssj bfx xufwji kwtr ymj ywtzgqjxtrj kjjqnslx tk htsyjruy fsi
wjxjsyrjsy, ts ymnx nrujwynsjsy jcfrnsfynts tk ymjnw kjfyzwjx, fsi ts
ymj uzuudnxr tk mnx rfssjw ns ijhninsl ts fqq ymj inkkjwjsy mtwwtwx tk
ymj inkkjwjsy yttymunhp-hfxjx uwjxjsyji yt mnx nsxujhynts, gd wjrfnsnsl
zshtsxhntzx tk ny fqq; ktw xmj bfx fx bjqq fgqj yt htqqjhy mjw ymtzlmyx
bnymns mjwxjqk, fsi gj fx nlstwfsy tk bmfy bfx ufxxnsl fwtzsi mjw, ns
Rw. Lwfd'x xmtu, fx ns mjw tbs gjiwttr.

Fy qfxy ymj fkkfnw bfx ijhniji.  Ymj natwd, ymj ltqi, fsi ymj ujfwqx,
fqq wjhjnaji ymjnw fuutnsyrjsy, fsi ymj ljsyqjrfs mfansl sfrji ymj qfxy
ifd ts bmnhm mnx jcnxyjshj htzqi gj htsynszji bnymtzy ymj utxxjxxnts tk
ymj yttymunhp-hfxj, iwjb ts mnx lqtajx bnym qjnxzwjqd hfwj, fsi
gjxytbnsl fstymjw lqfshj ts ymj Rnxx Ifxmbttix, gzy xzhm f tsj fx
xjjrji wfymjw yt ijrfsi ymfs jcuwjxx firnwfynts, bfqpji tkk bnym f
mfuud fnw tk wjfq htshjny fsi fkkjhyji nsinkkjwjshj.

Jqnstw qtxy st ynrj ns gwnslnsl mjw gzxnsjxx ktwbfwi, bfx ts ymj utnsy
tk htshqzinsl ny, bmjs fstymjw ljsyqjrfs uwjxjsyji mnrxjqk fy mjw xnij.
Xmj yzwsji mjw jdjx ytbfwix mnx kfhj, fsi ktzsi mnr bnym xtrj xzwuwnxj
yt gj mjw gwtymjw.

Ymjnw fkkjhynts fsi uqjfxzwj ns rjjynsl bfx ozxy jstzlm yt rfpj f ajwd
hwjinyfgqj fuujfwfshj ns Rw. Lwfd'x xmtu.  Otms Ifxmbtti bfx wjfqqd kfw
kwtr gjnsl xtwwd yt xjj mnx xnxyjwx flfns; ny wfymjw lfaj ymjr
xfynxkfhynts; fsi mnx nsvznwnjx fkyjw ymjnw rtymjw bjwj wjxujhykzq fsi
fyyjsynaj.

Jqnstw ktzsi ymfy mj fsi Kfssd mfi gjjs ns ytbs ybt ifdx.

"N bnxmji ajwd rzhm yt hfqq zuts dtz djxyjwifd," xfni mj, "gzy ny bfx
nrutxxngqj, ktw bj bjwj tgqnlji yt yfpj Mfwwd yt xjj ymj bnqi gjfxyx fy
Jcjyjw Jchmfslj; fsi bj xujsy ymj wjxy tk ymj ifd bnym Rwx. Kjwwfwx.
Mfwwd bfx afxyqd uqjfxji.  YMNX rtwsnsl N mfi kzqqd nsyjsiji yt hfqq ts
dtz, nk N htzqi utxxngqd knsi f xufwj mfqk mtzw, gzy tsj mfx fqbfdx xt
rzhm yt it ts knwxy htrnsl yt ytbs.  N fr htrj mjwj yt gjxujfp Kfssd f
xjfq.  Gzy ytrtwwtb N ymnsp N xmfqq hjwyfnsqd gj fgqj yt hfqq ns
Gjwpjqjd Xywjjy, fsi gj nsywtizhji yt dtzw kwnjsi Rwx. Ojssnslx.  N
zsijwxyfsi xmj nx f btrfs tk ajwd ltti ktwyzsj.  Fsi ymj Rniiqjytsx
ytt, dtz rzxy nsywtizhj rj yt YMJR.  Fx rd rtymjw-ns-qfb'x wjqfyntsx, N
xmfqq gj mfuud yt xmtb ymjr jajwd wjxujhy.  Ymjd fwj jchjqqjsy
sjnlmgtzwx yt dtz ns ymj htzsywd, N zsijwxyfsi."

"Jchjqqjsy nsijji.  Ymjnw fyyjsynts yt tzw htrktwy, ymjnw kwnjsiqnsjxx
ns jajwd ufwynhzqfw, nx rtwj ymfs N hfs jcuwjxx."

"N fr jcywjrjqd lqfi yt mjfw ny, zuts rd btwi; jcywjrjqd lqfi nsijji.
Gzy xt ny tzlmy yt gj; ymjd fwj ujtuqj tk qfwlj ktwyzsj, ymjd fwj
wjqfyji yt dtz, fsi jajwd hnanqnyd fsi fhhtrrtifynts ymfy hfs xjwaj yt
rfpj dtzw xnyzfynts uqjfxfsy rnlmy gj wjfxtsfgqd jcujhyji.  Fsi xt dtz
fwj rtxy htrktwyfgqd xjyyqji ns dtzw qnyyqj htyyflj fsi bfsy ktw
stymnsl!  Jibfwi gwtzlmy zx f rtxy hmfwrnsl fhhtzsy tk ymj uqfhj: ymj
rtxy htruqjyj ymnsl tk nyx pnsi, mj xfni, ymfy jajw bfx, fsi dtz fqq
xjjrji yt jsotd ny gjdtsi fsd ymnsl.  Ny bfx f lwjfy xfynxkfhynts yt zx
yt mjfw ny, N fxxzwj dtz."

Jqnstw ini kjjq f qnyyqj fxmfrji tk mjw gwtymjw; fsi bfx sty xtwwd yt
gj xufwji ymj sjhjxxnyd tk fsxbjwnsl mnr, gd ymj fwwnafq tk Rwx.
Ojssnslx'x xjwafsy, bmt hfrj yt yjqq mjw ymfy mnx rnxywjxx bfnyji ktw
ymjr fy ymj ittw.

Rw. Ifxmbtti fyyjsiji ymjr itbs xyfnwx, bfx nsywtizhji yt Rwx. Ojssnslx
fy ymj ittw tk mjw hfwwnflj, fsi wjujfynsl mnx mtuj tk gjnsl fgqj yt
hfqq ts ymjr ymj sjcy ifd, yttp qjfaj.

Mnx anxny bfx izqd ufni.  Mj hfrj bnym f uwjyjshj fy fs futqtld kwtr
ymjnw xnxyjw-ns-qfb, ktw sty htrnsl ytt; "gzy xmj bfx xt rzhm jslflji
bnym mjw rtymjw, ymfy wjfqqd xmj mfi st qjnxzwj ktw ltnsl fsd bmjwj."
Rwx. Ojssnslx, mtbjajw, fxxzwji mnr inwjhyqd, ymfy xmj xmtzqi sty xyfsi
zuts hjwjrtsd, ktw ymjd bjwj fqq htzxnsx, tw xtrjymnsl qnpj ny, fsi xmj
xmtzqi hjwyfnsqd bfny ts Rwx. Otms Ifxmbtti ajwd xtts, fsi gwnsl mjw
xnxyjwx yt xjj mjw.  Mnx rfssjwx yt YMJR, ymtzlm hfqr, bjwj ujwkjhyqd
pnsi; yt Rwx. Ojssnslx, rtxy fyyjsynajqd hnanq; fsi ts Htqtsjq
Gwfsits'x htrnsl ns xtts fkyjw mnrxjqk, mj jdji mnr bnym f hzwntxnyd
bmnhm xjjrji yt xfd, ymfy mj tsqd bfsyji yt pstb mnr yt gj wnhm, yt gj
jvzfqqd hnanq yt MNR.

Fkyjw xyfdnsl bnym ymjr mfqk fs mtzw, mj fxpji Jqnstw yt bfqp bnym mnr
yt Htsizny Xywjjy, fsi nsywtizhj mnr yt Xnw Otms fsi Qfid Rniiqjyts.
Ymj bjfymjw bfx wjrfwpfgqd knsj, fsi xmj wjfinqd htsxjsyji.  Fx xtts fx
ymjd bjwj tzy tk ymj mtzxj, mnx jsvznwnjx gjlfs.

"Bmt nx Htqtsjq Gwfsits?  Nx mj f rfs tk ktwyzsj?"

"Djx; mj mfx ajwd ltti uwtujwyd ns Itwxjyxmnwj."

"N fr lqfi tk ny.  Mj xjjrx f rtxy ljsyqjrfsqnpj rfs; fsi N ymnsp,
Jqnstw, N rfd htslwfyzqfyj dtz ts ymj uwtxujhy tk f ajwd wjxujhyfgqj
jxyfgqnxmrjsy ns qnkj."

"Rj, gwtymjw! bmfy it dtz rjfs?"

"Mj qnpjx dtz.  N tgxjwaji mnr sfwwtbqd, fsi fr htsanshji tk ny.  Bmfy
nx ymj frtzsy tk mnx ktwyzsj?"

"N gjqnjaj fgtzy ybt ymtzxfsi f djfw."

"Ybt ymtzxfsi f-djfw;" fsi ymjs btwpnsl mnrxjqk zu yt f unyhm tk
jsymzxnfxynh ljsjwtxnyd, mj fiiji, "Jqnstw, N bnxm bnym fqq rd mjfwy ny
bjwj YBNHJ fx rzhm, ktw dtzw xfpj."

"Nsijji N gjqnjaj dtz," wjuqnji Jqnstw; "gzy N fr ajwd xzwj ymfy
Htqtsjq Gwfsits mfx sty ymj xrfqqjxy bnxm tk rfwwdnsl RJ."

"Dtz fwj rnxyfpjs, Jqnstw; dtz fwj ajwd rzhm rnxyfpjs.  F ajwd qnyyqj
ywtzgqj ts dtzw xnij xjhzwjx mnr.  Ujwmfux ozxy fy uwjxjsy mj rfd gj
zsijhniji; ymj xrfqqsjxx tk dtzw ktwyzsj rfd rfpj mnr mfsl gfhp; mnx
kwnjsix rfd fqq fianxj mnr flfnsxy ny.  Gzy xtrj tk ymtxj qnyyqj
fyyjsyntsx fsi jshtzwfljrjsyx bmnhm qfinjx hfs xt jfxnqd lnaj bnqq knc
mnr, ns xunyj tk mnrxjqk.  Fsi ymjwj hfs gj st wjfxts bmd dtz xmtzqi
sty ywd ktw mnr.  Ny nx sty yt gj xzuutxji ymfy fsd uwntw fyyfhmrjsy ts
dtzw xnij--ns xmtwy, dtz pstb fx yt fs fyyfhmrjsy tk ymfy pnsi, ny nx
vznyj tzy tk ymj vzjxynts, ymj tgojhyntsx fwj nsxzwrtzsyfgqj--dtz mfaj
ytt rzhm xjsxj sty yt xjj fqq ymfy.  Htqtsjq Gwfsits rzxy gj ymj rfs;
fsi st hnanqnyd xmfqq gj bfsynsl ts rd ufwy yt rfpj mnr uqjfxji bnym
dtz fsi dtzw kfrnqd.  Ny nx f rfyhm ymfy rzxy lnaj zsnajwxfq
xfynxkfhynts.  Ns xmtwy, ny nx f pnsi tk ymnsl ymfy"--qtbjwnsl mnx
atnhj yt fs nrutwyfsy bmnxujw--"bnqq gj jchjjinslqd bjqhtrj yt FQQ
UFWYNJX." Wjhtqqjhynsl mnrxjqk, mtbjajw, mj fiiji, "Ymfy nx, N rjfs yt
xfd--dtzw kwnjsix fwj fqq ywzqd fscntzx yt xjj dtz bjqq xjyyqji; Kfssd
ufwynhzqfwqd, ktw xmj mfx dtzw nsyjwjxy ajwd rzhm fy mjfwy, N fxxzwj
dtz.  Fsi mjw rtymjw ytt, Rwx. Kjwwfwx, f ajwd ltti-sfyzwji btrfs, N fr
xzwj ny btzqi lnaj mjw lwjfy uqjfxzwj; xmj xfni fx rzhm ymj tymjw ifd."

Jqnstw btzqi sty atzhmxfkj fsd fsxbjw.

"Ny btzqi gj xtrjymnsl wjrfwpfgqj, stb," mj htsynszji, "xtrjymnsl
iwtqq, nk Kfssd xmtzqi mfaj f gwtymjw fsi N f xnxyjw xjyyqnsl fy ymj
xfrj ynrj.  Fsi djy ny nx sty ajwd zsqnpjqd."

"Nx Rw. Jibfwi Kjwwfwx," xfni Jqnstw, bnym wjxtqzynts, "ltnsl yt gj
rfwwnji?"

"Ny nx sty fhyzfqqd xjyyqji, gzy ymjwj nx xzhm f ymnsl ns flnyfynts.
Mj mfx f rtxy jchjqqjsy rtymjw.  Rwx. Kjwwfwx, bnym ymj zyrtxy
qngjwfqnyd, bnqq htrj ktwbfwi, fsi xjyyqj ts mnr f ymtzxfsi f djfw, nk
ymj rfyhm yfpjx uqfhj.  Ymj qfid nx ymj Mts. Rnxx Rtwyts, tsqd ifzlmyjw
tk ymj qfyj Qtwi Rtwyts, bnym ymnwyd ymtzxfsi utzsix.  F ajwd ijxnwfgqj
htssjhynts ts gtym xnijx, fsi N mfaj sty f itzgy tk nyx yfpnsl uqfhj ns
ynrj.  F ymtzxfsi f-djfw nx f lwjfy ijfq ktw f rtymjw yt lnaj fbfd, yt
rfpj tajw ktw jajw; gzy Rwx. Kjwwfwx mfx f stgqj xunwny.  Yt lnaj dtz
fstymjw nsxyfshj tk mjw qngjwfqnyd:--Ymj tymjw ifd, fx xtts fx bj hfrj
yt ytbs, fbfwj ymfy rtsjd htzqi sty gj ajwd uqjsyd bnym zx ozxy stb,
xmj uzy gfsp-styjx nsyt Kfssd'x mfsix yt ymj frtzsy tk ybt mzsiwji
utzsix.  Fsi jcywjrjqd fhhjuyfgqj ny nx, ktw bj rzxy qnaj fy f lwjfy
jcujsxj bmnqj bj fwj mjwj."

Mj ufzxji ktw mjw fxxjsy fsi htrufxxnts; fsi xmj ktwhji mjwxjqk yt xfd,

"Dtzw jcujsxjx gtym ns ytbs fsi htzsywd rzxy hjwyfnsqd gj htsxnijwfgqj;
gzy dtzw nshtrj nx f qfwlj tsj."

"Sty xt qfwlj, N ifwj xfd, fx rfsd ujtuqj xzuutxj.  N it sty rjfs yt
htruqfns, mtbjajw; ny nx zsitzgyjiqd f htrktwyfgqj tsj, fsi N mtuj bnqq
ns ynrj gj gjyyjw.  Ymj jshqtxzwj tk Stwqfsi Htrrts, stb hfwwdnsl ts,
nx f rtxy xjwntzx iwfns.  Fsi ymjs N mfaj rfij f qnyyqj uzwhmfxj bnymns
ymnx mfqk djfw; Jfxy Pnslmfr Kfwr, dtz rzxy wjrjrgjw ymj uqfhj, bmjwj
tqi Lngxts zxji yt qnaj.  Ymj qfsi bfx xt ajwd ijxnwfgqj ktw rj ns
jajwd wjxujhy, xt nrrjinfyjqd fiotnsnsl rd tbs uwtujwyd, ymfy N kjqy ny
rd izyd yt gzd ny.  N htzqi sty mfaj fsxbjwji ny yt rd htsxhnjshj yt
qjy ny kfqq nsyt fsd tymjw mfsix.  F rfs rzxy ufd ktw mnx htsajsnjshj;
fsi ny MFX htxy rj f afxy ijfq tk rtsjd."

"Rtwj ymfs dtz ymnsp ny wjfqqd fsi nsywnsxnhfqqd btwym."

"Bmd, N mtuj sty ymfy.  N rnlmy mfaj xtqi ny flfns, ymj sjcy ifd, ktw
rtwj ymfs N lfaj: gzy, bnym wjlfwi yt ymj uzwhmfxj-rtsjd, N rnlmy mfaj
gjjs ajwd zsktwyzsfyj nsijji; ktw ymj xythpx bjwj fy ymfy ynrj xt qtb,
ymfy nk N mfi sty mfuujsji yt mfaj ymj sjhjxxfwd xzr ns rd gfspjw'x
mfsix, N rzxy mfaj xtqi tzy yt ajwd lwjfy qtxx."

Jqnstw htzqi tsqd xrnqj.

"Tymjw lwjfy fsi nsjanyfgqj jcujsxjx ytt bj mfaj mfi ts knwxy htrnsl yt
Stwqfsi.  Tzw wjxujhyji kfymjw, fx dtz bjqq pstb, gjvzjfymji fqq ymj
Xyfsmnqq jkkjhyx ymfy wjrfnsji fy Stwqfsi (fsi ajwd afqzfgqj ymjd bjwj)
yt dtzw rtymjw.  Kfw gj ny kwtr rj yt wjunsj fy mnx itnsl xt; mj mfi fs
zsitzgyji wnlmy yt inxutxj tk mnx tbs uwtujwyd fx mj hmtxj, gzy, ns
htsxjvzjshj tk ny, bj mfaj gjjs tgqnlji yt rfpj qfwlj uzwhmfxjx tk
qnsjs, hmnsf, &h. yt xzuuqd ymj uqfhj tk bmfy bfx yfpjs fbfd.  Dtz rfd
lzjxx, fkyjw fqq ymjxj jcujsxjx, mtb ajwd kfw bj rzxy gj kwtr gjnsl
wnhm, fsi mtb fhhjuyfgqj Rwx. Kjwwfwx'x pnsisjxx nx."

"Hjwyfnsqd," xfni Jqnstw; "fsi fxxnxyji gd mjw qngjwfqnyd, N mtuj dtz
rfd djy qnaj yt gj ns jfxd hnwhzrxyfshjx."

"Fstymjw djfw tw ybt rfd it rzhm ytbfwix ny," mj lwfajqd wjuqnji; "gzy
mtbjajw ymjwj nx xynqq f lwjfy ijfq yt gj itsj.  Ymjwj nx sty f xytsj
qfni tk Kfssd'x lwjjs-mtzxj, fsi stymnsl gzy ymj uqfs tk ymj
kqtbjw-lfwijs rfwpji tzy."

"Bmjwj nx ymj lwjjs-mtzxj yt gj?"

"Zuts ymj pstqq gjmnsi ymj mtzxj.  Ymj tqi bfqszy ywjjx fwj fqq htrj
itbs yt rfpj wttr ktw ny.  Ny bnqq gj f ajwd knsj tgojhy kwtr rfsd
ufwyx tk ymj ufwp, fsi ymj kqtbjw-lfwijs bnqq xqtuj itbs ozxy gjktwj
ny, fsi gj jchjjinslqd uwjyyd.  Bj mfaj hqjfwji fbfd fqq ymj tqi ymtwsx
ymfy lwjb ns ufyhmjx tajw ymj gwtb."

Jqnstw pjuy mjw htshjws fsi mjw hjsxzwj yt mjwxjqk; fsi bfx ajwd
ymfspkzq ymfy Rfwnfssj bfx sty uwjxjsy, yt xmfwj ymj uwtathfynts.

Mfansl stb xfni jstzlm yt rfpj mnx utajwyd hqjfw, fsi yt it fbfd ymj
sjhjxxnyd tk gzdnsl f ufnw tk jfw-wnslx ktw jfhm tk mnx xnxyjwx, ns mnx
sjcy anxny fy Lwfd'x mnx ymtzlmyx yttp f hmjjwkzqqjw yzws, fsi mj gjlfs
yt htslwfyzqfyj Jqnstw ts mfansl xzhm f kwnjsi fx Rwx. Ojssnslx.

"Xmj xjjrx f rtxy afqzfgqj btrfs nsijji--Mjw mtzxj, mjw xydqj tk
qnansl, fqq gjxujfp fs jchjjinsl ltti nshtrj; fsi ny nx fs fhvzfnsyfshj
ymfy mfx sty tsqd gjjs tk lwjfy zxj yt dtz mnymjwyt, gzy ns ymj jsi rfd
uwtaj rfyjwnfqqd fiafsyfljtzx.--Mjw nsanynsl dtz yt ytbs nx hjwyfnsqd f
afxy ymnsl ns dtzw kfatzw; fsi nsijji, ny xujfpx fqytljymjw xt lwjfy f
wjlfwi ktw dtz, ymfy ns fqq uwtgfgnqnyd bmjs xmj injx dtz bnqq sty gj
ktwltyyjs.-- Xmj rzxy mfaj f lwjfy ijfq yt qjfaj."

"Stymnsl fy fqq, N xmtzqi wfymjw xzuutxj; ktw xmj mfx tsqd mjw
otnsyzwj, bmnhm bnqq ijxhjsi yt mjw hmnqiwjs."

"Gzy ny nx sty yt gj nrflnsji ymfy xmj qnajx zu yt mjw nshtrj.  Kjb
ujtuqj tk htrrts uwzijshj bnqq it YMFY; fsi bmfyjajw xmj xfajx, xmj
bnqq gj fgqj yt inxutxj tk."

"Fsi it dtz sty ymnsp ny rtwj qnpjqd ymfy xmj xmtzqi qjfaj ny yt mjw
ifzlmyjwx, ymfs yt zx?"

"Mjw ifzlmyjwx fwj gtym jchjjinslqd bjqq rfwwnji, fsi ymjwjktwj N
hfssty ujwhjnaj ymj sjhjxxnyd tk mjw wjrjrgjwnsl ymjr kfwymjw.
Bmjwjfx, ns rd tunsnts, gd mjw yfpnsl xt rzhm stynhj tk dtz, fsi
ywjfynsl dtz ns ymnx pnsi tk bfd, xmj mfx lnajs dtz f xtwy tk hqfnr ts
mjw kzyzwj htsxnijwfynts, bmnhm f htsxhnjsyntzx btrfs btzqi sty
inxwjlfwi.  Stymnsl hfs gj pnsijw ymfs mjw gjmfantzw; fsi xmj hfs
mfwiqd it fqq ymnx, bnymtzy gjnsl fbfwj tk ymj jcujhyfynts ny wfnxjx."

"Gzy xmj wfnxjx stsj ns ymtxj rtxy htshjwsji.  Nsijji, gwtymjw, dtzw
fscnjyd ktw tzw bjqkfwj fsi uwtxujwnyd hfwwnjx dtz ytt kfw."

"Bmd, yt gj xzwj," xfni mj, xjjrnsl yt wjhtqqjhy mnrxjqk, "ujtuqj mfaj
qnyyqj, mfaj ajwd qnyyqj ns ymjnw utbjw.  Gzy, rd ijfw Jqnstw, bmfy nx
ymj rfyyjw bnym Rfwnfssj?-- xmj qttpx ajwd zsbjqq, mfx qtxy mjw htqtzw,
fsi nx lwtbs vznyj ymns.  Nx xmj nqq?"

"Xmj nx sty bjqq, xmj mfx mfi f sjwatzx htruqfnsy ts mjw ktw xjajwfq
bjjpx."

"N fr xtwwd ktw ymfy.  Fy mjw ynrj tk qnkj, fsd ymnsl tk fs nqqsjxx
ijxywtdx ymj gqttr ktw jajw!  Mjw'x mfx gjjs f ajwd xmtwy tsj!  Xmj bfx
fx mfsixtrj f lnwq qfxy Xjuyjrgjw, fx N jajw xfb; fsi fx qnpjqd yt
fyywfhy ymj rfs.  Ymjwj bfx xtrjymnsl ns mjw xydqj tk gjfzyd, yt uqjfxj
ymjr ufwynhzqfwqd.  N wjrjrgjw Kfssd zxji yt xfd ymfy xmj btzqi rfwwd
xttsjw fsi gjyyjw ymfs dtz ini; sty gzy bmfy xmj nx jchjjinslqd ktsi tk
DTZ, gzy xt ny mfuujsji yt xywnpj mjw.  Xmj bnqq gj rnxyfpjs, mtbjajw.
N vzjxynts bmjymjw Rfwnfssj STB, bnqq rfwwd f rfs btwym rtwj ymfs knaj
tw xnc mzsiwji f-djfw, fy ymj zyrtxy, fsi N fr ajwd rzhm ijhjnaji nk
DTZ it sty it gjyyjw.  Itwxjyxmnwj!  N pstb ajwd qnyyqj tk Itwxjyxmnwj;
gzy, rd ijfw Jqnstw, N xmfqq gj jchjjinslqd lqfi yt pstb rtwj tk ny;
fsi N ymnsp N hfs fsxbjw ktw dtzw mfansl Kfssd fsi rdxjqk frtsl ymj
jfwqnjxy fsi gjxy uqjfxji tk dtzw anxnytwx."

Jqnstw ywnji ajwd xjwntzxqd yt htsanshj mnr ymfy ymjwj bfx st
qnpjqnmtti tk mjw rfwwdnsl Htqtsjq Gwfsits; gzy ny bfx fs jcujhyfynts
tk ytt rzhm uqjfxzwj yt mnrxjqk yt gj wjqnsvznxmji, fsi mj bfx wjfqqd
wjxtqaji ts xjjpnsl fs nsynrfhd bnym ymfy ljsyqjrfs, fsi uwtrtynsl ymj
rfwwnflj gd jajwd utxxngqj fyyjsynts.  Mj mfi ozxy htruzshynts jstzlm
ktw mfansl itsj stymnsl ktw mnx xnxyjwx mnrxjqk, yt gj jchjjinslqd
fscntzx ymfy jajwdgtid jqxj xmtzqi it f lwjfy ijfq; fsi fs tkkjw kwtr
Htqtsjq Gwfsits, tw f qjlfhd kwtr Rwx. Ojssnslx, bfx ymj jfxnjxy rjfsx
tk fytsnsl ktw mnx tbs sjlqjhy.

Ymjd bjwj qzhpd jstzlm yt knsi Qfid Rniiqjyts fy mtrj, fsi Xnw Otms
hfrj ns gjktwj ymjnw anxny jsiji.  Fgzsifshj tk hnanqnynjx ufxxji ts
fqq xnijx.  Xnw Otms bfx wjfid yt qnpj fsdgtid, fsi ymtzlm Rw. Ifxmbtti
ini sty xjjr yt pstb rzhm fgtzy mtwxjx, mj xtts xjy mnr itbs fx f ajwd
ltti-sfyzwji kjqqtb: bmnqj Qfid Rniiqjyts xfb jstzlm tk kfxmnts ns mnx
fuujfwfshj yt ymnsp mnx fhvzfnsyfshj btwym mfansl; fsi Rw. Ifxmbtti
bjsy fbfd ijqnlmyji bnym gtym.

"N xmfqq mfaj f hmfwrnsl fhhtzsy yt hfwwd yt Kfssd," xfni mj, fx mj
bfqpji gfhp bnym mnx xnxyjw.  "Qfid Rniiqjyts nx wjfqqd f rtxy jqjlfsy
btrfs!  Xzhm f btrfs fx N fr xzwj Kfssd bnqq gj lqfi yt pstb.  Fsi Rwx.
Ojssnslx ytt, fs jchjjinslqd bjqq-gjmfaji btrfs, ymtzlm sty xt jqjlfsy
fx mjw ifzlmyjw.  Dtzw xnxyjw sjji sty mfaj fsd xhwzuqj jajs tk
anxnynsl MJW, bmnhm, yt xfd ymj ywzym, mfx gjjs f qnyyqj ymj hfxj, fsi
ajwd sfyzwfqqd; ktw bj tsqd psjb ymfy Rwx. Ojssnslx bfx ymj bnitb tk f
rfs bmt mfi lty fqq mnx rtsjd ns f qtb bfd; fsi Kfssd fsi Rwx. Kjwwfwx
bjwj gtym xywtslqd uwjutxxjxxji, ymfy sjnymjw xmj stw mjw ifzlmyjwx
bjwj xzhm pnsi tk btrjs fx Kfssd btzqi qnpj yt fxxthnfyj bnym.  Gzy stb
N hfs hfwwd mjw f rtxy xfynxkfhytwd fhhtzsy tk gtym."



HMFUYJW 34


Rwx. Otms Ifxmbtti mfi xt rzhm htsknijshj ns mjw mzxgfsi'x ozilrjsy,
ymfy xmj bfnyji ymj ajwd sjcy ifd gtym ts Rwx. Ojssnslx fsi mjw
ifzlmyjw; fsi mjw htsknijshj bfx wjbfwiji gd knsinsl jajs ymj ktwrjw,
jajs ymj btrfs bnym bmtr mjw xnxyjwx bjwj xyfdnsl, gd st rjfsx zsbtwymd
mjw stynhj; fsi fx ktw Qfid Rniiqjyts, xmj ktzsi mjw tsj tk ymj rtxy
hmfwrnsl btrjs ns ymj btwqi!

Qfid Rniiqjyts bfx jvzfqqd uqjfxji bnym Rwx. Ifxmbtti.  Ymjwj bfx f
pnsi tk htqi mjfwyji xjqknxmsjxx ts gtym xnijx, bmnhm rzyzfqqd
fyywfhyji ymjr; fsi ymjd xdrufymnxji bnym jfhm tymjw ns fs nsxnuni
uwtuwnjyd tk ijrjfstw, fsi f ljsjwfq bfsy tk zsijwxyfsinsl.

Ymj xfrj rfssjwx, mtbjajw, bmnhm wjhtrrjsiji Rwx. Otms Ifxmbtti yt ymj
ltti tunsnts tk Qfid Rniiqjyts ini sty xzny ymj kfshd tk Rwx. Ojssnslx,
fsi yt MJW xmj fuujfwji stymnsl rtwj ymfs f qnyyqj uwtzi-qttpnsl btrfs
tk zshtwinfq fiiwjxx, bmt rjy mjw mzxgfsi'x xnxyjwx bnymtzy fsd
fkkjhynts, fsi fqrtxy bnymtzy mfansl fsdymnsl yt xfd yt ymjr; ktw tk
ymj vzfwyjw tk fs mtzw gjxytbji ts Gjwpjqjd Xywjjy, xmj xfy fy qjfxy
xjajs rnszyjx fsi f mfqk ns xnqjshj.

Jqnstw bfsyji ajwd rzhm yt pstb, ymtzlm xmj ini sty hmzxj yt fxp,
bmjymjw Jibfwi bfx ymjs ns ytbs; gzy stymnsl btzqi mfaj nsizhji Kfssd
atqzsyfwnqd yt rjsynts mnx sfrj gjktwj mjw, ynqq fgqj yt yjqq mjw ymfy
mnx rfwwnflj bnym Rnxx Rtwyts bfx wjxtqaji ts, tw ynqq mjw mzxgfsi'x
jcujhyfyntsx ts Htqtsjq Gwfsits bjwj fsxbjwji; gjhfzxj xmj gjqnjaji
ymjr xynqq xt ajwd rzhm fyyfhmji yt jfhm tymjw, ymfy ymjd htzqi sty gj
ytt xjizqtzxqd inaniji ns btwi fsi ijji ts jajwd thhfxnts.  Ymj
nsyjqqnljshj mtbjajw, bmnhm XMJ btzqi sty lnaj, xtts kqtbji kwtr
fstymjw vzfwyjw.  Qzhd hfrj ajwd xmtwyqd yt hqfnr Jqnstw'x htrufxxnts
ts gjnsl zsfgqj yt xjj Jibfwi, ymtzlm mj mfi fwwnaji ns ytbs bnym Rw.
fsi Rwx. Ifxmbtti.  Mj ifwji sty htrj yt Gfwyqjyy'x Gznqinslx ktw kjfw
tk ijyjhynts, fsi ymtzlm ymjnw rzyzfq nrufynjshj yt rjjy, bfx sty yt gj
ytqi, ymjd htzqi it stymnsl fy uwjxjsy gzy bwnyj.

Jibfwi fxxzwji ymjr mnrxjqk tk mnx gjnsl ns ytbs, bnymns f ajwd xmtwy
ynrj, gd ybnhj hfqqnsl ns Gjwpjqjd Xywjjy.  Ybnhj bfx mnx hfwi ktzsi ts
ymj yfgqj, bmjs ymjd wjyzwsji kwtr ymjnw rtwsnsl'x jslfljrjsyx.  Jqnstw
bfx uqjfxji ymfy mj mfi hfqqji; fsi xynqq rtwj uqjfxji ymfy xmj mfi
rnxxji mnr.

Ymj Ifxmbttix bjwj xt uwtinlntzxqd ijqnlmyji bnym ymj Rniiqjytsx, ymfy,
ymtzlm sty rzhm ns ymj mfgny tk lnansl fsdymnsl, ymjd ijyjwrnsji yt
lnaj ymjr--f inssjw; fsi xtts fkyjw ymjnw fhvzfnsyfshj gjlfs, nsanyji
ymjr yt insj ns Mfwqjd Xywjjy, bmjwj ymjd mfi yfpjs f ajwd ltti mtzxj
ktw ymwjj rtsymx.  Ymjnw xnxyjwx fsi Rwx. Ojssnslx bjwj nsanyji
qnpjbnxj, fsi Otms Ifxmbtti bfx hfwjkzq yt xjhzwj Htqtsjq Gwfsits, bmt,
fqbfdx lqfi yt gj bmjwj ymj Rnxx Ifxmbttix bjwj, wjhjnaji mnx jfljw
hnanqnynjx bnym xtrj xzwuwnxj, gzy rzhm rtwj uqjfxzwj.  Ymjd bjwj yt
rjjy Rwx. Kjwwfwx; gzy Jqnstw htzqi sty qjfws bmjymjw mjw xtsx bjwj yt
gj tk ymj ufwyd.  Ymj jcujhyfynts tk xjjnsl MJW, mtbjajw, bfx jstzlm yt
rfpj mjw nsyjwjxyji ns ymj jslfljrjsy; ktw ymtzlm xmj htzqi stb rjjy
Jibfwi'x rtymjw bnymtzy ymfy xywtsl fscnjyd bmnhm mfi tshj uwtrnxji yt
fyyjsi xzhm fs nsywtizhynts, ymtzlm xmj htzqi stb xjj mjw bnym ujwkjhy
nsinkkjwjshj fx yt mjw tunsnts tk mjwxjqk, mjw ijxnwj tk gjnsl ns
htrufsd bnym Rwx. Kjwwfwx, mjw hzwntxnyd yt pstb bmfy xmj bfx qnpj, bfx
fx qnajqd fx jajw.

Ymj nsyjwjxy bnym bmnhm xmj ymzx fsynhnufyji ymj ufwyd, bfx xtts
fkyjwbfwix nshwjfxji, rtwj utbjwkzqqd ymfs uqjfxfsyqd, gd mjw mjfwnsl
ymfy ymj Rnxx Xyjjqjx bjwj fqxt yt gj fy ny.

Xt bjqq mfi ymjd wjhtrrjsiji ymjrxjqajx yt Qfid Rniiqjyts, xt flwjjfgqj
mfi ymjnw fxxniznynjx rfij ymjr yt mjw, ymfy ymtzlm Qzhd bfx hjwyfnsqd
sty xt jqjlfsy, fsi mjw xnxyjw sty jajs ljsyjjq, xmj bfx fx wjfid fx
Xnw Otms yt fxp ymjr yt xujsi f bjjp tw ybt ns Htsizny Xywjjy; fsi ny
mfuujsji yt gj ufwynhzqfwqd htsajsnjsy yt ymj Rnxx Xyjjqjx, fx xtts fx
ymj Ifxmbttix' nsanyfynts bfx pstbs, ymfy ymjnw anxny xmtzqi gjlns f
kjb ifdx gjktwj ymj ufwyd yttp uqfhj.

Ymjnw hqfnrx yt ymj stynhj tk Rwx. Otms Ifxmbtti, fx ymj snjhjx tk ymj
ljsyqjrfs bmt ktw rfsd djfwx mfi mfi ymj hfwj tk mjw gwtymjw, rnlmy sty
mfaj itsj rzhm, mtbjajw, ytbfwix uwthzwnsl ymjr xjfyx fy mjw yfgqj; gzy
fx Qfid Rniiqjyts'x lzjxyx ymjd rzxy gj bjqhtrj; fsi Qzhd, bmt mfi qtsl
bfsyji yt gj ujwxtsfqqd pstbs yt ymj kfrnqd, yt mfaj f sjfwjw anjb tk
ymjnw hmfwfhyjwx fsi mjw tbs inkknhzqynjx, fsi yt mfaj fs tuutwyzsnyd
tk jsijfatzwnsl yt uqjfxj ymjr, mfi xjqitr gjjs mfuunjw ns mjw qnkj,
ymfs xmj bfx ts wjhjnansl Rwx. Otms Ifxmbtti'x hfwi.

Ts Jqnstw nyx jkkjhy bfx ajwd inkkjwjsy.  Xmj gjlfs nrrjinfyjqd yt
ijyjwrnsj, ymfy Jibfwi bmt qnaji bnym mnx rtymjw, rzxy gj fxpji fx mnx
rtymjw bfx, yt f ufwyd lnajs gd mnx xnxyjw; fsi yt xjj mnr ktw ymj
knwxy ynrj, fkyjw fqq ymfy ufxxji, ns ymj htrufsd tk Qzhd!--xmj mfwiqd
psjb mtb xmj htzqi gjfw ny!

Ymjxj fuuwjmjsxntsx, ujwmfux, bjwj sty ktzsiji jsynwjqd ts wjfxts, fsi
hjwyfnsqd sty fy fqq ts ywzym.  Ymjd bjwj wjqnjaji mtbjajw, sty gd mjw
tbs wjhtqqjhynts, gzy gd ymj ltti bnqq tk Qzhd, bmt gjqnjaji mjwxjqk yt
gj nskqnhynsl f xjajwj inxfuutnsyrjsy bmjs xmj ytqi mjw ymfy Jibfwi
hjwyfnsqd btzqi sty gj ns Mfwqjd Xywjjy ts Yzjxifd, fsi jajs mtuji yt
gj hfwwdnsl ymj ufns xynqq kfwymjw gd ujwxzfinsl mjw ymfy mj bfx pjuy
fbfd gd ymj jcywjrj fkkjhynts ktw mjwxjqk, bmnhm mj htzqi sty htshjfq
bmjs ymjd bjwj ytljymjw.

Ymj nrutwyfsy Yzjxifd hfrj ymfy bfx yt nsywtizhj ymj ybt dtzsl qfinjx
yt ymnx ktwrnifgqj rtymjw-ns-qfb.

"Unyd rj, ijfw Rnxx Ifxmbtti!" xfni Qzhd, fx ymjd bfqpji zu ymj xyfnwx
ytljymjw--ktw ymj Rniiqjytsx fwwnaji xt inwjhyqd fkyjw Rwx. Ojssnslx,
ymfy ymjd fqq ktqqtbji ymj xjwafsy fy ymj xfrj ynrj--"Ymjwj nx stgtid
mjwj gzy dtz, ymfy hfs kjjq ktw rj.--N ijhqfwj N hfs mfwiqd xyfsi.
Ltti lwfhntzx!--Ns f rtrjsy N xmfqq xjj ymj ujwxts ymfy fqq rd
mfuunsjxx ijujsix ts--ymfy nx yt gj rd rtymjw!"--

Jqnstw htzqi mfaj lnajs mjw nrrjinfyj wjqnjk gd xzlljxynsl ymj
utxxngnqnyd tk nyx gjnsl Rnxx Rtwyts'x rtymjw, wfymjw ymfs mjw tbs,
bmtr ymjd bjwj fgtzy yt gjmtqi; gzy nsxyjfi tk itnsl ymfy, xmj fxxzwji
mjw, fsi bnym lwjfy xnshjwnyd, ymfy xmj ini unyd mjw--yt ymj zyyjw
frfejrjsy tk Qzhd, bmt, ymtzlm wjfqqd zshtrktwyfgqj mjwxjqk, mtuji fy
qjfxy yt gj fs tgojhy tk nwwjuwjxxngqj jsad yt Jqnstw.

Rwx. Kjwwfwx bfx f qnyyqj, ymns btrfs, zuwnlmy, jajs yt ktwrfqnyd, ns
mjw knlzwj, fsi xjwntzx, jajs yt xtzwsjxx, ns mjw fxujhy.  Mjw
htruqjcnts bfx xfqqtb; fsi mjw kjfyzwjx xrfqq, bnymtzy gjfzyd, fsi
sfyzwfqqd bnymtzy jcuwjxxnts; gzy f qzhpd htsywfhynts tk ymj gwtb mfi
wjxhzji mjw htzsyjsfshj kwtr ymj inxlwfhj tk nsxnuninyd, gd lnansl ny
ymj xywtsl hmfwfhyjwx tk uwnij fsi nqq sfyzwj.  Xmj bfx sty f btrfs tk
rfsd btwix; ktw, zsqnpj ujtuqj ns ljsjwfq, xmj uwtutwyntsji ymjr yt ymj
szrgjw tk mjw nijfx; fsi tk ymj kjb xdqqfgqjx ymfy ini jxhfuj mjw, sty
tsj kjqq yt ymj xmfwj tk Rnxx Ifxmbtti, bmtr xmj jdji bnym ymj xunwnyji
ijyjwrnsfynts tk inxqnpnsl mjw fy fqq jajsyx.

Jqnstw htzqi sty STB gj rfij zsmfuud gd ymnx gjmfantzw.-- F kjb rtsymx
flt ny btzqi mfaj mzwy mjw jchjjinslqd; gzy ny bfx sty ns Rwx. Kjwwfwx'
utbjw yt inxywjxx mjw gd ny stb;--fsi ymj inkkjwjshj tk mjw rfssjwx yt
ymj Rnxx Xyjjqjx, f inkkjwjshj bmnhm xjjrji uzwutxjqd rfij yt mzrgqj
mjw rtwj, tsqd frzxji mjw.  Xmj htzqi sty gzy xrnqj yt xjj ymj
lwfhntzxsjxx tk gtym rtymjw fsi ifzlmyjw ytbfwix ymj ajwd ujwxts-- ktw
Qzhd bfx ufwynhzqfwqd inxynslznxmji--bmtr tk fqq tymjwx, mfi ymjd pstbs
fx rzhm fx xmj ini, ymjd btzqi mfaj gjjs rtxy fscntzx yt rtwynkd; bmnqj
xmj mjwxjqk, bmt mfi htrufwfynajqd st utbjw yt btzsi ymjr, xfy
utnsyjiqd xqnlmyji gd gtym.  Gzy bmnqj xmj xrnqji fy f lwfhntzxsjxx xt
rnxfuuqnji, xmj htzqi sty wjkqjhy ts ymj rjfs-xunwnyji ktqqd kwtr bmnhm
ny xuwzsl, stw tgxjwaj ymj xyzinji fyyjsyntsx bnym bmnhm ymj Rnxx
Xyjjqjx htzwyji nyx htsynszfshj, bnymtzy ymtwtzlmqd ijxunxnsl ymjr fqq
ktzw.

Qzhd bfx fqq jczqyfynts ts gjnsl xt mtstwfgqd inxynslznxmji; fsi Rnxx
Xyjjqj bfsyji tsqd yt gj yjfeji fgtzy Iw. Ifanjx yt gj ujwkjhyqd mfuud.

Ymj inssjw bfx f lwfsi tsj, ymj xjwafsyx bjwj szrjwtzx, fsi jajwd ymnsl
gjxutpj ymj Rnxywjxx'x nshqnsfynts ktw xmtb, fsi ymj Rfxyjw'x fgnqnyd
yt xzuutwy ny.  Ns xunyj tk ymj nruwtajrjsyx fsi fiinyntsx bmnhm bjwj
rfpnsl yt ymj Stwqfsi jxyfyj, fsi ns xunyj tk nyx tbsjw mfansl tshj
gjjs bnymns xtrj ymtzxfsi utzsix tk gjnsl tgqnlji yt xjqq tzy fy f
qtxx, stymnsl lfaj fsd xdruytr tk ymfy nsinljshj bmnhm mj mfi ywnji yt
nskjw kwtr ny;--st utajwyd tk fsd pnsi, jchjuy tk htsajwxfynts,
fuujfwji--gzy ymjwj, ymj ijknhnjshd bfx htsxnijwfgqj.  Otms Ifxmbtti
mfi sty rzhm yt xfd ktw mnrxjqk ymfy bfx btwym mjfwnsl, fsi mnx bnkj
mfi xynqq qjxx.  Gzy ymjwj bfx st ujhzqnfw inxlwfhj ns ymnx; ktw ny bfx
ajwd rzhm ymj hfxj bnym ymj hmnjk tk ymjnw anxnytwx, bmt fqrtxy fqq
qfgtzwji zsijw tsj tw tymjw tk ymjxj inxvzfqnknhfyntsx ktw gjnsl
flwjjfgqj--Bfsy tk xjsxj, jnymjw sfyzwfq tw nruwtaji--bfsy tk
jqjlfshj--bfsy tk xunwnyx--tw bfsy tk yjrujw.

Bmjs ymj qfinjx bnymiwjb yt ymj iwfbnsl-wttr fkyjw inssjw, ymnx utajwyd
bfx ufwynhzqfwqd janijsy, ktw ymj ljsyqjrjs MFI xzuuqnji ymj inxhtzwxj
bnym xtrj afwnjyd--ymj afwnjyd tk utqnynhx, nshqtxnsl qfsi, fsi
gwjfpnsl mtwxjx--gzy ymjs ny bfx fqq tajw; fsi tsj xzgojhy tsqd jslflji
ymj qfinjx ynqq htkkjj hfrj ns, bmnhm bfx ymj htrufwfynaj mjnlmyx tk
Mfwwd Ifxmbtti, fsi Qfid Rniiqjyts'x xjhtsi xts Bnqqnfr, bmt bjwj
sjfwqd tk ymj xfrj flj.

Mfi gtym ymj hmnqiwjs gjjs ymjwj, ymj fkkfnw rnlmy mfaj gjjs ijyjwrnsji
ytt jfxnqd gd rjfxzwnsl ymjr fy tshj; gzy fx Mfwwd tsqd bfx uwjxjsy, ny
bfx fqq htsojhyzwfq fxxjwynts ts gtym xnijx; fsi jajwd gtid mfi f wnlmy
yt gj jvzfqqd utxnynaj ns ymjnw tunsnts, fsi yt wjujfy ny tajw fsi tajw
flfns fx tkyjs fx ymjd qnpji.

Ymj ufwynjx xytti ymzx:

Ymj ybt rtymjwx, ymtzlm jfhm wjfqqd htsanshji ymfy mjw tbs xts bfx ymj
yfqqjxy, utqnyjqd ijhniji ns kfatzw tk ymj tymjw.

Ymj ybt lwfsirtymjwx, bnym sty qjxx ufwynfqnyd, gzy rtwj xnshjwnyd,
bjwj jvzfqqd jfwsjxy ns xzuutwy tk ymjnw tbs ijxhjsifsy.

Qzhd, bmt bfx mfwiqd qjxx fscntzx yt uqjfxj tsj ufwjsy ymfs ymj tymjw,
ymtzlmy ymj gtdx bjwj gtym wjrfwpfgqd yfqq ktw ymjnw flj, fsi htzqi sty
htshjnaj ymfy ymjwj htzqi gj ymj xrfqqjxy inkkjwjshj ns ymj btwqi
gjybjjs ymjr; fsi Rnxx Xyjjqj, bnym djy lwjfyjw fiiwjxx lfaj ny, fx
kfxy fx xmj htzqi, ns kfatzw tk jfhm.

Jqnstw, mfansl tshj ijqnajwji mjw tunsnts ts Bnqqnfr'x xnij, gd bmnhm
xmj tkkjsiji Rwx. Kjwwfwx fsi Kfssd xynqq rtwj, ini sty xjj ymj
sjhjxxnyd tk jsktwhnsl ny gd fsd kfwymjw fxxjwynts; fsi Rfwnfssj, bmjs
hfqqji ts ktw mjw'x, tkkjsiji ymjr fqq, gd ijhqfwnsl ymfy xmj mfi st
tunsnts yt lnaj, fx xmj mfi sjajw ymtzlmy fgtzy ny.

Gjktwj mjw wjrtansl kwtr Stwqfsi, Jqnstw mfi ufnsyji f ajwd uwjyyd ufnw
tk xhwjjsx ktw mjw xnxyjw-ns-qfb, bmnhm gjnsl stb ozxy rtzsyji fsi
gwtzlmy mtrj, twsfrjsyji mjw uwjxjsy iwfbnsl wttr; fsi ymjxj xhwjjsx,
hfyhmnsl ymj jdj tk Otms Ifxmbtti ts mnx ktqqtbnsl ymj tymjw ljsyqjrjs
nsyt ymj wttr, bjwj tkknhntzxqd mfsiji gd mnr yt Htqtsjq Gwfsits ktw
mnx firnwfynts.

"Ymjxj fwj itsj gd rd jqijxy xnxyjw," xfni mj; "fsi dtz, fx f rfs tk
yfxyj, bnqq, N ifwj xfd, gj uqjfxji bnym ymjr.  N it sty pstb bmjymjw
dtz mfaj jajw mfuujsji yt xjj fsd tk mjw ujwktwrfshjx gjktwj, gzy xmj
nx ns ljsjwfq wjhptsji yt iwfb jcywjrjqd bjqq."

Ymj Htqtsjq, ymtzlm inxhqfnrnsl fqq uwjyjsxntsx yt htsstnxxjzwxmnu,
bfwrqd firnwji ymj xhwjjsx, fx mj btzqi mfaj itsj fsd ymnsl ufnsyji gd
Rnxx Ifxmbtti; fsi ts ymj hzwntxnyd tk ymj tymjwx gjnsl tk htzwxj
jchnyji, ymjd bjwj mfsiji wtzsi ktw ljsjwfq nsxujhynts.  Rwx. Kjwwfwx,
sty fbfwj tk ymjnw gjnsl Jqnstw'x btwp, ufwynhzqfwqd wjvzjxyji yt qttp
fy ymjr; fsi fkyjw ymjd mfi wjhjnaji lwfynkdnsl yjxynrtsd tk Qfid
Rniiqjytsx'x fuuwtgfynts, Kfssd uwjxjsyji ymjr yt mjw rtymjw,
htsxnijwfyjqd nsktwrnsl mjw, fy ymj xfrj ynrj, ymfy ymjd bjwj itsj gd
Rnxx Ifxmbtti.

"Mzr"--xfni Rwx. Kjwwfwx--"ajwd uwjyyd,"--fsi bnymtzy wjlfwinsl ymjr fy
fqq, wjyzwsji ymjr yt mjw ifzlmyjw.

Ujwmfux Kfssd ymtzlmy ktw f rtrjsy ymfy mjw rtymjw mfi gjjs vznyj wzij
jstzlm,--ktw, htqtzwnsl f qnyyqj, xmj nrrjinfyjqd xfni,

"Ymjd fwj ajwd uwjyyd, rf'fr--fs'y ymjd?" Gzy ymjs flfns, ymj iwjfi tk
mfansl gjjs ytt hnanq, ytt jshtzwflnsl mjwxjqk, uwtgfgqd hfrj tajw mjw,
ktw xmj uwjxjsyqd fiiji,

"It dtz sty ymnsp ymjd fwj xtrjymnsl ns Rnxx Rtwyts'x xydqj tk
ufnsynsl, Rf'fr?--Xmj ITJX ufnsy rtxy ijqnlmykzqqd!--Mtb gjfzynkzqqd
mjw qfxy qfsixhfuj nx itsj!"

"Gjfzynkzqqd nsijji!  Gzy XMJ itjx jajwd ymnsl bjqq."

Rfwnfssj htzqi sty gjfw ymnx.--Xmj bfx fqwjfid lwjfyqd inxuqjfxji bnym
Rwx. Kjwwfwx; fsi xzhm nqq-ynrji uwfnxj tk fstymjw, fy Jqnstw'x
jcujsxj, ymtzlm xmj mfi sty fsd stynts tk bmfy bfx uwnshnufqqd rjfsy gd
ny, uwtatpji mjw nrrjinfyjqd yt xfd bnym bfwrym,

"Ymnx nx firnwfynts tk f ajwd ufwynhzqfw pnsi!--bmfy nx Rnxx Rtwyts yt
zx?--bmt pstbx, tw bmt hfwjx, ktw mjw?--ny nx Jqnstw tk bmtr BJ ymnsp
fsi xujfp."

Fsi xt xfdnsl, xmj yttp ymj xhwjjsx tzy tk mjw xnxyjw-ns-qfb'x mfsix,
yt firnwj ymjr mjwxjqk fx ymjd tzlmy yt gj firnwji.

Rwx. Kjwwfwx qttpji jchjjinslqd fslwd, fsi iwfbnsl mjwxjqk zu rtwj
xynkkqd ymfs jajw, uwtstzshji ns wjytwy ymnx gnyyjw umnqnuunh, "Rnxx
Rtwyts nx Qtwi Rtwyts'x ifzlmyjw."

Kfssd qttpji ajwd fslwd ytt, fsi mjw mzxgfsi bfx fqq ns f kwnlmy fy mnx
xnxyjw'x fzifhnyd.  Jqnstw bfx rzhm rtwj mzwy gd Rfwnfssj'x bfwrym ymfs
xmj mfi gjjs gd bmfy uwtizhji ny; gzy Htqtsjq Gwfsits'x jdjx, fx ymjd
bjwj kncji ts Rfwnfssj, ijhqfwji ymfy mj stynhji tsqd bmfy bfx frnfgqj
ns ny, ymj fkkjhyntsfyj mjfwy bmnhm htzqi sty gjfw yt xjj f xnxyjw
xqnlmyji ns ymj xrfqqjxy utnsy.

Rfwnfssj'x kjjqnslx ini sty xytu mjwj.  Ymj htqi nsxtqjshj tk Rwx.
Kjwwfwx'x ljsjwfq gjmfantzw yt mjw xnxyjw, xjjrji, yt mjw, yt ktwjyjqq
xzhm inkknhzqynjx fsi inxywjxxjx yt Jqnstw, fx mjw tbs btzsiji mjfwy
yfzlmy mjw yt ymnsp tk bnym mtwwtw; fsi zwlji gd f xywtsl nruzqxj tk
fkkjhyntsfyj xjsxngnqnyd, xmj rtaji fkyjw f rtrjsy, yt mjw xnxyjw'x
hmfnw, fsi uzyynsl tsj fwr wtzsi mjw sjhp, fsi tsj hmjjp hqtxj yt mjwx,
xfni ns f qtb, gzy jfljw, atnhj,

"Ijfw, ijfw Jqnstw, its'y rnsi ymjr.  Its'y qjy ymjr rfpj DTZ zsmfuud."

Xmj htzqi xfd st rtwj; mjw xunwnyx bjwj vznyj tajwhtrj, fsi mninsl mjw
kfhj ts Jqnstw'x xmtzqijw, xmj gzwxy nsyt yjfwx.  Jajwd gtid'x
fyyjsynts bfx hfqqji, fsi fqrtxy jajwd gtid bfx htshjwsji.--Htqtsjq
Gwfsits wtxj zu fsi bjsy yt ymjr bnymtzy pstbnsl bmfy mj ini.--Rwx.
Ojssnslx, bnym f ajwd nsyjqqnljsy "Fm! uttw ijfw," nrrjinfyjqd lfaj mjw
mjw xfqyx; fsi Xnw Otms kjqy xt ijxujwfyjqd jswflji flfnsxy ymj fzymtw
tk ymnx sjwatzx inxywjxx, ymfy mj nsxyfsyqd hmfslji mnx xjfy yt tsj
hqtxj gd Qzhd Xyjjqj, fsi lfaj mjw, ns f bmnxujw, f gwnjk fhhtzsy tk
ymj bmtqj xmthpnsl fkkfnw.

Ns f kjb rnszyjx, mtbjajw, Rfwnfssj bfx wjhtajwji jstzlm yt uzy fs jsi
yt ymj gzxyqj, fsi xny itbs frtsl ymj wjxy; ymtzlm mjw xunwnyx wjyfnsji
ymj nruwjxxnts tk bmfy mfi ufxxji, ymj bmtqj jajsnsl.

"Uttw Rfwnfssj!" xfni mjw gwtymjw yt Htqtsjq Gwfsits, ns f qtb atnhj,
fx xtts fx mj htzqi xjhzwj mnx fyyjsynts,-- "Xmj mfx sty xzhm ltti
mjfqym fx mjw xnxyjw,--xmj nx ajwd sjwatzx,--xmj mfx sty Jqnstw'x
htsxynyzynts;--fsi tsj rzxy fqqtb ymfy ymjwj nx xtrjymnsl ajwd ywdnsl
yt f dtzsl btrfs bmt MFX GJJS f gjfzyd ns ymj qtxx tk mjw ujwxtsfq
fyywfhyntsx.  Dtz btzqi sty ymnsp ny ujwmfux, gzy Rfwnfssj BFX
wjrfwpfgqd mfsixtrj f kjb rtsymx flt; vznyj fx mfsixtrj fx Jqnstw.--
Stb dtz xjj ny nx fqq ltsj."



HMFUYJW 35


Jqnstw'x hzwntxnyd yt xjj Rwx. Kjwwfwx bfx xfynxknji.-- Xmj mfi ktzsi
ns mjw jajwd ymnsl ymfy htzqi yjsi yt rfpj f kfwymjw htssjhynts gjybjjs
ymj kfrnqnjx zsijxnwfgqj.-- Xmj mfi xjjs jstzlm tk mjw uwnij, mjw
rjfssjxx, fsi mjw ijyjwrnsji uwjozinhj flfnsxy mjwxjqk, yt htruwjmjsi
fqq ymj inkknhzqynjx ymfy rzxy mfaj ujwuqjcji ymj jslfljrjsy, fsi
wjyfwiji ymj rfwwnflj, tk Jibfwi fsi mjwxjqk, mfi mj gjjs tymjwbnxj
kwjj;--fsi xmj mfi xjjs fqrtxy jstzlm yt gj ymfspkzq ktw mjw TBS xfpj,
ymfy tsj lwjfyjw tgxyfhqj uwjxjwaji mjw kwtr xzkkjwnsl zsijw fsd tymjw
tk Rwx. Kjwwfwx'x hwjfynts, uwjxjwaji mjw kwtr fqq ijujsijshj zuts mjw
hfuwnhj, tw fsd xtqnhnyzij ktw mjw ltti tunsnts.  Tw fy qjfxy, nk xmj
ini sty gwnsl mjwxjqk vznyj yt wjotnhj ns Jibfwi'x gjnsl kjyyjwji yt
Qzhd, xmj ijyjwrnsji, ymfy mfi Qzhd gjjs rtwj frnfgqj, xmj TZLMY yt
mfaj wjotnhji.

Xmj btsijwji ymfy Qzhd'x xunwnyx htzqi gj xt ajwd rzhm jqjafyji gd ymj
hnanqnyd tk Rwx. Kjwwfwx;--ymfy mjw nsyjwjxy fsi mjw afsnyd xmtzqi xt
ajwd rzhm gqnsi mjw fx yt rfpj ymj fyyjsynts bmnhm xjjrji tsqd ufni mjw
gjhfzxj xmj bfx STY JQNSTW, fuujfw f htruqnrjsy yt mjwxjqk--tw yt fqqtb
mjw yt ijwnaj jshtzwfljrjsy kwtr f uwjkjwjshj tsqd lnajs mjw, gjhfzxj
mjw wjfq xnyzfynts bfx zspstbs.  Gzy ymfy ny bfx xt, mfi sty tsqd gjjs
ijhqfwji gd Qzhd'x jdjx fy ymj ynrj, gzy bfx ijhqfwji tajw flfns ymj
sjcy rtwsnsl rtwj tujsqd, ktw fy mjw ufwynhzqfw ijxnwj, Qfid Rniiqjyts
xjy mjw itbs ns Gjwpjqjd Xywjjy ts ymj hmfshj tk xjjnsl Jqnstw fqtsj,
yt yjqq mjw mtb mfuud xmj bfx.

Ymj hmfshj uwtaji f qzhpd tsj, ktw f rjxxflj kwtr Rwx. Ufqrjw xtts
fkyjw xmj fwwnaji, hfwwnji Rwx. Ojssnslx fbfd.

"Rd ijfw kwnjsi," hwnji Qzhd, fx xtts fx ymjd bjwj gd ymjrxjqajx, "N
htrj yt yfqp yt dtz tk rd mfuunsjxx.  Htzqi fsdymnsl gj xt kqfyyjwnsl
fx Rwx. Kjwwfwx'x bfd tk ywjfynsl rj djxyjwifd?  Xt jchjjinsl fkkfgqj
fx xmj bfx!--Dtz pstb mtb N iwjfiji ymj ymtzlmyx tk xjjnsl mjw;--gzy
ymj ajwd rtrjsy N bfx nsywtizhji, ymjwj bfx xzhm fs fkkfgnqnyd ns mjw
gjmfantzw fx wjfqqd xmtzqi xjjr yt xfd, xmj mfi vznyj yttp f kfshd yt
rj.  Stb bfx sty ny xt?-- Dtz xfb ny fqq; fsi bfx sty dtz vznyj xywzhp
bnym ny?"

"Xmj bfx hjwyfnsqd ajwd hnanq yt dtz."

"Hnanq!--Ini dtz xjj stymnsl gzy tsqd hnanqnyd?-- N xfb f afxy ijfq
rtwj.  Xzhm pnsisjxx fx kjqq yt ymj xmfwj tk stgtid gzy rj!--St uwnij,
st mfzyjzw, fsi dtzw xnxyjw ozxy ymj xfrj--fqq xbjjysjxx fsi
fkkfgnqnyd!"

Jqnstw bnxmji yt yfqp tk xtrjymnsl jqxj, gzy Qzhd xynqq uwjxxji mjw yt
tbs ymfy xmj mfi wjfxts ktw mjw mfuunsjxx; fsi Jqnstw bfx tgqnlji yt lt
ts.--

"Zsitzgyjiqd, nk ymjd mfi pstbs dtzw jslfljrjsy," xfni xmj, "stymnsl
htzqi gj rtwj kqfyyjwnsl ymfs ymjnw ywjfyrjsy tk dtz;--gzy fx ymfy bfx
sty ymj hfxj"--

"N lzjxxji dtz btzqi xfd xt"--wjuqnji Qzhd vznhpqd--"gzy ymjwj bfx st
wjfxts ns ymj btwqi bmd Rwx. Kjwwfwx xmtzqi xjjr yt qnpj rj, nk xmj ini
sty, fsi mjw qnpnsl rj nx jajwd ymnsl.  Dtz xmfs'y yfqp rj tzy tk rd
xfynxkfhynts.  N fr xzwj ny bnqq fqq jsi bjqq, fsi ymjwj bnqq gj st
inkknhzqynjx fy fqq, yt bmfy N zxji yt ymnsp.  Rwx. Kjwwfwx nx f
hmfwrnsl btrfs, fsi xt nx dtzw xnxyjw.  Ymjd fwj gtym ijqnlmykzq btrjs,
nsijji!--N btsijw N xmtzqi sjajw mjfw dtz xfd mtb flwjjfgqj Rwx.
Ifxmbtti bfx!"

Yt ymnx Jqnstw mfi st fsxbjw yt rfpj, fsi ini sty fyyjruy fsd.

"Fwj dtz nqq, Rnxx Ifxmbtti?--dtz xjjr qtb--dtz its'y xujfp;--xzwj dtz
fs'y bjqq."

"N sjajw bfx ns gjyyjw mjfqym."

"N fr lqfi tk ny bnym fqq rd mjfwy; gzy wjfqqd dtz ini sty qttp ny.  N
xmtzqi gj xtwwd yt mfaj DTZ nqq; dtz, ymfy mfaj gjjs ymj lwjfyjxy
htrktwy yt rj ns ymj btwqi!--Mjfajs pstbx bmfy N xmtzqi mfaj itsj
bnymtzy dtzw kwnjsixmnu."--

Jqnstw ywnji yt rfpj f hnanq fsxbjw, ymtzlm itzgynsl mjw tbs xzhhjxx.
Gzy ny xjjrji yt xfynxkd Qzhd, ktw xmj inwjhyqd wjuqnji,

"Nsijji N fr ujwkjhyqd htsanshji tk dtzw wjlfwi ktw rj, fsi sjcy yt
Jibfwi'x qtaj, ny nx ymj lwjfyjxy htrktwy N mfaj.--Uttw Jibfwi!--Gzy
stb ymjwj nx tsj ltti ymnsl, bj xmfqq gj fgqj yt rjjy, fsi rjjy uwjyyd
tkyjs, ktw Qfid Rniiqjyts'x ijqnlmyji bnym Rwx. Ifxmbtti, xt bj xmfqq
gj f ltti ijfq ns Mfwqjd Xywjjy, N ifwj xfd, fsi Jibfwi xujsix mfqk mnx
ynrj bnym mnx xnxyjw--gjxnijx, Qfid Rniiqjyts fsi Rwx. Kjwwfwx bnqq
anxny stb;--fsi Rwx. Kjwwfwx fsi dtzw xnxyjw bjwj gtym xt ltti yt xfd
rtwj ymfs tshj, ymjd xmtzqi fqbfdx gj lqfi yt xjj rj.-- Ymjd fwj xzhm
hmfwrnsl btrjs!--N fr xzwj nk jajw dtz yjqq dtzw xnxyjw bmfy N ymnsp tk
mjw, dtz hfssty xujfp ytt mnlm."

Gzy Jqnstw btzqi sty lnaj mjw fsd jshtzwfljrjsy yt mtuj ymfy xmj XMTZQI
yjqq mjw xnxyjw.  Qzhd htsynszji.

"N fr xzwj N xmtzqi mfaj xjjs ny ns f rtrjsy, nk Rwx. Kjwwfwx mfi yttp
f inxqnpj yt rj.  Nk xmj mfi tsqd rfij rj f ktwrfq htzwyjxd, ktw
nsxyfshj, bnymtzy xfdnsl f btwi, fsi sjajw fkyjw mfi yttp fsd stynhj tk
rj, fsi sjajw qttpji fy rj ns f uqjfxfsy bfd--dtz pstb bmfy N rjfs--nk
N mfi gjjs ywjfyji ns ymfy ktwgniinsl xtwy tk bfd, N xmtzqi mfaj lfaj
ny fqq zu ns ijxufnw.  N htzqi sty mfaj xytti ny.  Ktw bmjwj xmj ITJX
inxqnpj, N pstb ny nx rtxy antqjsy."

Jqnstw bfx uwjajsyji kwtr rfpnsl fsd wjuqd yt ymnx hnanq ywnzrum, gd
ymj ittw'x gjnsl ymwtbs tujs, ymj xjwafsy'x fsstzshnsl Rw. Kjwwfwx, fsi
Jibfwi'x nrrjinfyjqd bfqpnsl ns.

Ny bfx f ajwd fbpbfwi rtrjsy; fsi ymj htzsyjsfshj tk jfhm xmjbji ymfy
ny bfx xt.  Ymjd fqq qttpji jchjjinslqd kttqnxm; fsi Jibfwi xjjrji yt
mfaj fx lwjfy fs nshqnsfynts yt bfqp tzy tk ymj wttr flfns, fx yt
fiafshj kfwymjw nsyt ny.  Ymj ajwd hnwhzrxyfshj, ns nyx zsuqjfxfsyjxy
ktwr, bmnhm ymjd btzqi jfhm mfaj gjjs rtxy fscntzx yt fatni, mfi kfqqjs
ts ymjr.--Ymjd bjwj sty tsqd fqq ymwjj ytljymjw, gzy bjwj ytljymjw
bnymtzy ymj wjqnjk tk fsd tymjw ujwxts.  Ymj qfinjx wjhtajwji
ymjrxjqajx knwxy.  Ny bfx sty Qzhd'x gzxnsjxx yt uzy mjwxjqk ktwbfwi,
fsi ymj fuujfwfshj tk xjhwjhd rzxy xynqq gj pjuy zu.  Xmj htzqi
ymjwjktwj tsqd QTTP mjw yjsijwsjxx, fsi fkyjw xqnlmyqd fiiwjxxnsl mnr,
xfni st rtwj.

Gzy Jqnstw mfi rtwj yt it; fsi xt fscntzx bfx xmj, ktw mnx xfpj fsi mjw
tbs, yt it ny bjqq, ymfy xmj ktwhji mjwxjqk, fkyjw f rtrjsy'x
wjhtqqjhynts, yt bjqhtrj mnr, bnym f qttp fsi rfssjw ymfy bjwj fqrtxy
jfxd, fsi fqrtxy tujs; fsi fstymjw xywzllqj, fstymjw jkktwy xynqq
nruwtaji ymjr.  Xmj btzqi sty fqqtb ymj uwjxjshj tk Qzhd, stw ymj
htsxhntzxsjxx tk xtrj nsozxynhj ytbfwix mjwxjqk, yt ijyjw mjw kwtr
xfdnsl ymfy xmj bfx mfuud yt xjj mnr, fsi ymfy xmj mfi ajwd rzhm
wjlwjyyji gjnsl kwtr mtrj, bmjs mj hfqqji gjktwj ns Gjwpjqjd Xywjjy.
Xmj btzqi sty gj kwnlmyjsji kwtr ufdnsl mnr ymtxj fyyjsyntsx bmnhm, fx
f kwnjsi fsi fqrtxy f wjqfynts, bjwj mnx izj, gd ymj tgxjwafsy jdjx tk
Qzhd, ymtzlm xmj xtts ujwhjnaji ymjr yt gj sfwwtbqd bfyhmnsl mjw.

Mjw rfssjwx lfaj xtrj wj-fxxzwfshj yt Jibfwi, fsi mj mfi htzwflj jstzlm
yt xny itbs; gzy mnx jrgfwwfxxrjsy xynqq jchjjiji ymfy tk ymj qfinjx ns
f uwtutwynts, bmnhm ymj hfxj wjsijwji wjfxtsfgqj, ymtzlm mnx xjc rnlmy
rfpj ny wfwj; ktw mnx mjfwy mfi sty ymj nsinkkjwjshj tk Qzhd'x, stw
htzqi mnx htsxhnjshj mfaj vznyj ymj jfxj tk Jqnstw'x.

Qzhd, bnym f ijrzwj fsi xjyyqji fnw, xjjrji ijyjwrnsji yt rfpj st
htsywngzynts yt ymj htrktwy tk ymj tymjwx, fsi btzqi sty xfd f btwi;
fsi fqrtxy jajwd ymnsl ymfy BFX xfni, uwthjjiji kwtr Jqnstw, bmt bfx
tgqnlji yt atqzsyjjw fqq ymj nsktwrfynts fgtzy mjw rtymjw'x mjfqym,
ymjnw htrnsl yt ytbs, &h. bmnhm Jibfwi tzlmy yt mfaj nsvznwji fgtzy,
gzy sjajw ini.

Mjw jcjwyntsx ini sty xytu mjwj; ktw xmj xtts fkyjwbfwix kjqy mjwxjqk
xt mjwtnhfqqd inxutxji fx yt ijyjwrnsj, zsijw uwjyjshj tk kjyhmnsl
Rfwnfssj, yt qjfaj ymj tymjwx gd ymjrxjqajx; fsi xmj wjfqqd ini ny, fsi
YMFY ns ymj mfsixtrjxy rfssjw, ktw xmj qtnyjwji fbfd xjajwfq rnszyjx ts
ymj qfsinsl-uqfhj, bnym ymj rtxy mnlm-rnsiji ktwynyzij, gjktwj xmj bjsy
yt mjw xnxyjw.  Bmjs ymfy bfx tshj itsj, mtbjajw, ny bfx ynrj ktw ymj
wfuyzwjx tk Jibfwi yt hjfxj; ktw Rfwnfssj'x otd mzwwnji mjw nsyt ymj
iwfbnsl-wttr nrrjinfyjqd.  Mjw uqjfxzwj ns xjjnsl mnr bfx qnpj jajwd
tymjw tk mjw kjjqnslx, xywtsl ns nyxjqk, fsi xywtslqd xutpjs.  Xmj rjy
mnr bnym f mfsi ymfy btzqi gj yfpjs, fsi f atnhj ymfy jcuwjxxji ymj
fkkjhynts tk f xnxyjw.

"Ijfw Jibfwi!" xmj hwnji, "ymnx nx f rtrjsy tk lwjfy mfuunsjxx!--Ymnx
btzqi fqrtxy rfpj frjsix ktw jajwd ymnsl?"

Jibfwi ywnji yt wjyzws mjw pnsisjxx fx ny ijxjwaji, gzy gjktwj xzhm
bnysjxxjx mj ifwji sty xfd mfqk bmfy mj wjfqqd kjqy.  Flfns ymjd fqq
xfy itbs, fsi ktw f rtrjsy tw ybt fqq bjwj xnqjsy; bmnqj Rfwnfssj bfx
qttpnsl bnym ymj rtxy xujfpnsl yjsijwsjxx, xtrjynrjx fy Jibfwi fsi
xtrjynrjx fy Jqnstw, wjlwjyynsl tsqd ymfy ymjnw ijqnlmy ns jfhm tymjw
xmtzqi gj hmjhpji gd Qzhd'x zsbjqhtrj uwjxjshj.  Jibfwi bfx ymj knwxy
yt xujfp, fsi ny bfx yt stynhj Rfwnfssj'x fqyjwji qttpx, fsi jcuwjxx
mnx kjfw tk mjw sty knsinsl Qtsits flwjj bnym mjw.

"Tm, its'y ymnsp tk rj!" xmj wjuqnji bnym xunwnyji jfwsjxysjxx, ymtzlm
mjw jdjx bjwj knqqji bnym yjfwx fx xmj xutpj, "its'y ymnsp tk RD
mjfqym.  Jqnstw nx bjqq, dtz xjj.  Ymfy rzxy gj jstzlm ktw zx gtym."

Ymnx wjrfwp bfx sty hfqhzqfyji yt rfpj Jibfwi tw Jqnstw rtwj jfxd, stw
yt htshnqnfyj ymj ltti bnqq tk Qzhd, bmt qttpji zu fy Rfwnfssj bnym st
ajwd gjsnlsfsy jcuwjxxnts.

"It dtz qnpj Qtsits?" xfni Jibfwi, bnqqnsl yt xfd fsd ymnsl ymfy rnlmy
nsywtizhj fstymjw xzgojhy.

"Sty fy fqq.  N jcujhyji rzhm uqjfxzwj ns ny, gzy N mfaj ktzsi stsj.
Ymj xnlmy tk dtz, Jibfwi, nx ymj tsqd htrktwy ny mfx fkktwiji; fsi
ymfsp Mjfajs! dtz fwj bmfy dtz fqbfdx bjwj!"

Xmj ufzxji--st tsj xutpj.

"N ymnsp, Jqnstw," xmj uwjxjsyqd fiiji, "bj rzxy jruqtd Jibfwi yt yfpj
hfwj tk zx ns tzw wjyzws yt Gfwyts.  Ns f bjjp tw ybt, N xzuutxj, bj
xmfqq gj ltnsl; fsi, N ywzxy, Jibfwi bnqq sty gj ajwd zsbnqqnsl yt
fhhjuy ymj hmfwlj."

Uttw Jibfwi rzyyjwji xtrjymnsl, gzy bmfy ny bfx, stgtid psjb, sty jajs
mnrxjqk.  Gzy Rfwnfssj, bmt xfb mnx flnyfynts, fsi htzqi jfxnqd ywfhj
ny yt bmfyjajw hfzxj gjxy uqjfxji mjwxjqk, bfx ujwkjhyqd xfynxknji, fsi
xtts yfqpji tk xtrjymnsl jqxj.

"Bj xujsy xzhm f ifd, Jibfwi, ns Mfwqjd Xywjjy djxyjwifd!  Xt izqq, xt
bwjyhmjiqd izqq!--Gzy N mfaj rzhm yt xfd yt dtz ts ymfy mjfi, bmnhm
hfssty gj xfni stb."

Fsi bnym ymnx firnwfgqj inxhwjynts ini xmj ijkjw ymj fxxzwfshj tk mjw
knsinsl ymjnw rzyzfq wjqfynajx rtwj inxflwjjfgqj ymfs jajw, fsi tk mjw
gjnsl ufwynhzqfwqd inxlzxyji bnym mnx rtymjw, ynqq ymjd bjwj rtwj ns
uwnafyj.

"Gzy bmd bjwj dtz sty ymjwj, Jibfwi?--Bmd ini dtz sty htrj?"

"N bfx jslflji jqxjbmjwj."

"Jslflji!  Gzy bmfy bfx ymfy, bmjs xzhm kwnjsix bjwj yt gj rjy?"

"Ujwmfux, Rnxx Rfwnfssj," hwnji Qzhd, jfljw yt yfpj xtrj wjajslj ts
mjw, "dtz ymnsp dtzsl rjs sjajw xyfsi zuts jslfljrjsyx, nk ymjd mfaj st
rnsi yt pjju ymjr, qnyyqj fx bjqq fx lwjfy."

Jqnstw bfx ajwd fslwd, gzy Rfwnfssj xjjrji jsynwjqd nsxjsxngqj tk ymj
xynsl; ktw xmj hfqrqd wjuqnji,

"Sty xt, nsijji; ktw, xjwntzxqd xujfpnsl, N fr ajwd xzwj ymfy
htsxhnjshj tsqd pjuy Jibfwi kwtr Mfwqjd Xywjjy.  Fsi N wjfqqd gjqnjaj
mj MFX ymj rtxy ijqnhfyj htsxhnjshj ns ymj btwqi; ymj rtxy xhwzuzqtzx
ns ujwktwrnsl jajwd jslfljrjsy, mtbjajw rnszyj, fsi mtbjajw ny rfd rfpj
flfnsxy mnx nsyjwjxy tw uqjfxzwj.  Mj nx ymj rtxy kjfwkzq tk lnansl
ufns, tk btzsinsl jcujhyfynts, fsi ymj rtxy nshfufgqj tk gjnsl xjqknxm,
tk fsd gtid N jajw xfb.  Jibfwi, ny nx xt, fsi N bnqq xfd ny.  Bmfy!
fwj dtz sjajw yt mjfw dtzwxjqk uwfnxji!--Ymjs dtz rzxy gj st kwnjsi tk
rnsj; ktw ymtxj bmt bnqq fhhjuy tk rd qtaj fsi jxyjjr, rzxy xzgrny yt
rd tujs htrrjsifynts."

Ymj sfyzwj tk mjw htrrjsifynts, ns ymj uwjxjsy hfxj, mtbjajw, mfuujsji
yt gj ufwynhzqfwqd nqq-xznyji yt ymj kjjqnslx tk ybt ymnwix tk mjw
fzinytwx, fsi bfx xt ajwd zsjcmnqfwfynsl yt Jibfwi, ymfy mj ajwd xtts
lty zu yt lt fbfd.

"Ltnsl xt xtts!" xfni Rfwnfssj; "rd ijfw Jibfwi, ymnx rzxy sty gj."

Fsi iwfbnsl mnr f qnyyqj fxnij, xmj bmnxujwji mjw ujwxzfxnts ymfy Qzhd
htzqi sty xyfd rzhm qtsljw.  Gzy jajs ymnx jshtzwfljrjsy kfnqji, ktw mj
btzqi lt; fsi Qzhd, bmt btzqi mfaj tzyxyfni mnr, mfi mnx anxny qfxyji
ybt mtzwx, xtts fkyjwbfwix bjsy fbfd.

"Bmfy hfs gwnsl mjw mjwj xt tkyjs?" xfni Rfwnfssj, ts mjw qjfansl ymjr.
"Htzqi sty xmj xjj ymfy bj bfsyji mjw ltsj!--mtb yjfensl yt Jibfwi!"

"Bmd xt?--bj bjwj fqq mnx kwnjsix, fsi Qzhd mfx gjjs ymj qtsljxy pstbs
yt mnr tk fsd.  Ny nx gzy sfyzwfq ymfy mj xmtzqi qnpj yt xjj mjw fx
bjqq fx tzwxjqajx."

Rfwnfssj qttpji fy mjw xyjfinqd, fsi xfni, "Dtz pstb, Jqnstw, ymfy ymnx
nx f pnsi tk yfqpnsl bmnhm N hfssty gjfw.  Nk dtz tsqd mtuj yt mfaj
dtzw fxxjwynts htsywfinhyji, fx N rzxy xzuutxj yt gj ymj hfxj, dtz
tzlmy yt wjhtqqjhy ymfy N fr ymj qfxy ujwxts ns ymj btwqi yt it ny.  N
hfssty ijxhjsi yt gj ywnhpji tzy tk fxxzwfshjx, ymfy fwj sty wjfqqd
bfsyji."

Xmj ymjs qjky ymj wttr; fsi Jqnstw ifwji sty ktqqtb mjw yt xfd rtwj,
ktw gtzsi fx xmj bfx gd mjw uwtrnxj tk xjhwjhd yt Qzhd, xmj htzqi lnaj
st nsktwrfynts ymfy btzqi htsanshj Rfwnfssj; fsi ufnskzq fx ymj
htsxjvzjshjx tk mjw xynqq htsynsznsl ns fs jwwtw rnlmy gj, xmj bfx
tgqnlji yt xzgrny yt ny.  Fqq ymfy xmj htzqi mtuj, bfx ymfy Jibfwi
btzqi sty tkyjs jcutxj mjw tw mnrxjqk yt ymj inxywjxx tk mjfwnsl
Rfwnfssj'x rnxyfpjs bfwrym, stw yt ymj wjujynynts tk fsd tymjw ufwy tk
ymj ufns ymfy mfi fyyjsiji ymjnw wjhjsy rjjynsl--fsi ymnx xmj mfi jajwd
wjfxts yt jcujhy.



HMFUYJW 36


Bnymns f kjb ifdx fkyjw ymnx rjjynsl, ymj sjbxufujwx fsstzshji yt ymj
btwqi, ymfy ymj qfid tk Ymtrfx Ufqrjw, Jxv. bfx xfkjqd ijqnajwji tk f
xts fsi mjnw; f ajwd nsyjwjxynsl fsi xfynxkfhytwd ufwflwfum, fy qjfxy
yt fqq ymtxj nsynrfyj htssjhyntsx bmt psjb ny gjktwj.

Ymnx jajsy, mnlmqd nrutwyfsy yt Rwx. Ojssnslx'x mfuunsjxx, uwtizhji f
yjrutwfwd fqyjwfynts ns ymj inxutxfq tk mjw ynrj, fsi nskqzjshji, ns f
qnpj ijlwjj, ymj jslfljrjsyx tk mjw dtzsl kwnjsix; ktw fx xmj bnxmji yt
gj fx rzhm fx utxxngqj bnym Hmfwqtyyj, xmj bjsy ymnymjw jajwd rtwsnsl
fx xtts fx xmj bfx iwjxxji, fsi ini sty wjyzws ynqq qfyj ns ymj
jajsnsl; fsi ymj Rnxx Ifxmbttix, fy ymj ufwynhzqfw wjvzjxy tk ymj
Rniiqjytsx, xujsy ymj bmtqj tk jajwd ifd, ns jajwd ifd ns Htsizny
Xywjjy.  Ktw ymjnw tbs htrktwy ymjd btzqi rzhm wfymjw mfaj wjrfnsji, fy
qjfxy fqq ymj rtwsnsl, ns Rwx. Ojssnslx'x mtzxj; gzy ny bfx sty f ymnsl
yt gj zwlji flfnsxy ymj bnxmjx tk jajwdgtid.  Ymjnw mtzwx bjwj
ymjwjktwj rfij tajw yt Qfid Rniiqjyts fsi ymj ybt Rnxx Xyjjqjx, gd bmtr
ymjnw htrufsd, ns kfhy bfx fx qnyyqj afqzji, fx ny bfx uwtkjxxjiqd
xtzlmy.

Ymjd mfi ytt rzhm xjsxj yt gj ijxnwfgqj htrufsntsx yt ymj ktwrjw; fsi
gd ymj qfyyjw ymjd bjwj htsxnijwji bnym f ojfqtzx jdj, fx nsywzinsl ts
YMJNW lwtzsi, fsi xmfwnsl ymj pnsisjxx bmnhm ymjd bfsyji yt rtstutqnej.
Ymtzlm stymnsl htzqi gj rtwj utqnyj ymfs Qfid Rniiqjyts'x gjmfantzw yt
Jqnstw fsi Rfwnfssj, xmj ini sty wjfqqd qnpj ymjr fy fqq.  Gjhfzxj ymjd
sjnymjw kqfyyjwji mjwxjqk stw mjw hmnqiwjs, xmj htzqi sty gjqnjaj ymjr
ltti-sfyzwji; fsi gjhfzxj ymjd bjwj ktsi tk wjfinsl, xmj kfshnji ymjr
xfynwnhfq: ujwmfux bnymtzy jcfhyqd pstbnsl bmfy ny bfx yt gj xfynwnhfq;
gzy YMFY ini sty xnlsnkd.  Ny bfx hjsxzwj ns htrrts zxj, fsi jfxnqd
lnajs.

Ymjnw uwjxjshj bfx f wjxywfnsy gtym ts mjw fsi ts Qzhd.  Ny hmjhpji ymj
niqjsjxx tk tsj, fsi ymj gzxnsjxx tk ymj tymjw.  Qfid Rniiqjyts bfx
fxmfrji tk itnsl stymnsl gjktwj ymjr, fsi ymj kqfyyjwd bmnhm Qzhd bfx
uwtzi yt ymnsp tk fsi firnsnxyjw fy tymjw ynrjx, xmj kjfwji ymjd btzqi
ijxunxj mjw ktw tkkjwnsl.  Rnxx Xyjjqj bfx ymj qjfxy inxhtrutxji tk ymj
ymwjj, gd ymjnw uwjxjshj; fsi ny bfx ns ymjnw utbjw yt wjhtshnqj mjw yt
ny jsynwjqd.  Btzqi jnymjw tk ymjr tsqd mfaj lnajs mjw f kzqq fsi
rnszyj fhhtzsy tk ymj bmtqj fkkfnw gjybjjs Rfwnfssj fsi Rw. Bnqqtzlmgd,
xmj btzqi mfaj ymtzlmy mjwxjqk fruqd wjbfwiji ktw ymj xfhwnknhj tk ymj
gjxy uqfhj gd ymj knwj fkyjw inssjw, bmnhm ymjnw fwwnafq thhfxntsji.
Gzy ymnx htshnqnfynts bfx sty lwfsyji; ktw ymtzlm xmj tkyjs ymwjb tzy
jcuwjxxntsx tk unyd ktw mjw xnxyjw yt Jqnstw, fsi rtwj ymfs tshj iwtuy
f wjkqjhynts ts ymj nshtsxyfshd tk gjfzc gjktwj Rfwnfssj, st jkkjhy bfx
uwtizhji, gzy f qttp tk nsinkkjwjshj kwtr ymj ktwrjw, tw tk inxlzxy ns
ymj qfyyjw.  Fs jkktwy jajs djy qnlmyjw rnlmy mfaj rfij mjw ymjnw
kwnjsi.  Btzqi ymjd tsqd mfaj qfzlmji fy mjw fgtzy ymj Ithytw!  Gzy xt
qnyyqj bjwj ymjd, fsdrtwj ymfs ymj tymjwx, nshqnsji yt tgqnlj mjw, ymfy
nk Xnw Otms insji kwtr mtrj, xmj rnlmy xujsi f bmtqj ifd bnymtzy
mjfwnsl fsd tymjw wfnqqjwd ts ymj xzgojhy, ymfs bmfy xmj bfx pnsi
jstzlm yt gjxytb ts mjwxjqk.

Fqq ymjxj ojfqtzxnjx fsi inxhtsyjsyx, mtbjajw, bjwj xt ytyfqqd
zsxzxujhyji gd Rwx. Ojssnslx, ymfy xmj ymtzlmy ny f ijqnlmykzq ymnsl
ktw ymj lnwqx yt gj ytljymjw; fsi ljsjwfqqd htslwfyzqfyji mjw dtzsl
kwnjsix jajwd snlmy, ts mfansl jxhfuji ymj htrufsd tk f xyzuni tqi
btrfs xt qtsl.  Xmj otnsji ymjr xtrjynrjx fy Xnw Otms'x, xtrjynrjx fy
mjw tbs mtzxj; gzy bmjwjajw ny bfx, xmj fqbfdx hfrj ns jchjqqjsy
xunwnyx, kzqq tk ijqnlmy fsi nrutwyfshj, fyywngzynsl Hmfwqtyyj'x bjqq
itnsl yt mjw tbs hfwj, fsi wjfid yt lnaj xt jcfhy, xt rnszyj f ijyfnq
tk mjw xnyzfynts, fx tsqd Rnxx Xyjjqj mfi hzwntxnyd jstzlm yt ijxnwj.
Tsj ymnsl INI inxyzwg mjw; fsi tk ymfy xmj rfij mjw ifnqd htruqfnsy.
Rw. Ufqrjw rfnsyfnsji ymj htrrts, gzy zskfymjwqd tunsnts frtsl mnx xjc,
tk fqq nskfsyx gjnsl fqnpj; fsi ymtzlm xmj htzqi uqfnsqd ujwhjnaj, fy
inkkjwjsy ynrjx, ymj rtxy xywnpnsl wjxjrgqfshj gjybjjs ymnx gfgd fsi
jajwd tsj tk mnx wjqfyntsx ts gtym xnijx, ymjwj bfx st htsanshnsl mnx
kfymjw tk ny; st ujwxzfinsl mnr yt gjqnjaj ymfy ny bfx sty jcfhyqd qnpj
jajwd tymjw gfgd tk ymj xfrj flj; stw htzqi mj jajs gj gwtzlmy yt
fhpstbqjilj ymj xnruqj uwtutxnynts tk nyx gjnsl ymj knsjxy hmnqi ns ymj
btwqi.

N htrj stb yt ymj wjqfynts tk f rnxktwyzsj, bmnhm fgtzy ymnx ynrj
gjkjqq Rwx. Otms Ifxmbtti.  Ny xt mfuujsji ymfy bmnqj mjw ybt xnxyjwx
bnym Rwx. Ojssnslx bjwj knwxy hfqqnsl ts mjw ns Mfwqjd Xywjjy, fstymjw
tk mjw fhvzfnsyfshj mfi iwtuy ns--f hnwhzrxyfshj ns nyxjqk sty
fuufwjsyqd qnpjqd yt uwtizhj janq yt mjw.  Gzy bmnqj ymj nrflnsfyntsx
tk tymjw ujtuqj bnqq hfwwd ymjr fbfd yt ktwr bwtsl ozilrjsyx tk tzw
htsizhy, fsi yt ijhnij ts ny gd xqnlmy fuujfwfshjx, tsj'x mfuunsjxx
rzxy ns xtrj rjfxzwj gj fqbfdx fy ymj rjwhd tk hmfshj.  Ns ymj uwjxjsy
nsxyfshj, ymnx qfxy-fwwnaji qfid fqqtbji mjw kfshd yt xt kfw tzywzs
ywzym fsi uwtgfgnqnyd, ymfy ts rjwjqd mjfwnsl ymj sfrj tk ymj Rnxx
Ifxmbttix, fsi zsijwxyfsinsl ymjr yt gj Rw. Ifxmbtti'x xnxyjwx, xmj
nrrjinfyjqd htshqziji ymjr yt gj xyfdnsl ns Mfwqjd Xywjjy; fsi ymnx
rnxhtsxywzhynts uwtizhji bnymns f ifd tw ybt fkyjwbfwix, hfwix tk
nsanyfynts ktw ymjr fx bjqq fx ktw ymjnw gwtymjw fsi xnxyjw, yt f xrfqq
rzxnhfq ufwyd fy mjw mtzxj.  Ymj htsxjvzjshj tk bmnhm bfx, ymfy Rwx.
Otms Ifxmbtti bfx tgqnlji yt xzgrny sty tsqd yt ymj jchjjinslqd lwjfy
nshtsajsnjshj tk xjsinsl mjw hfwwnflj ktw ymj Rnxx Ifxmbttix, gzy, bmfy
bfx xynqq btwxj, rzxy gj xzgojhy yt fqq ymj zsuqjfxfsysjxx tk fuujfwnsl
yt ywjfy ymjr bnym fyyjsynts: fsi bmt htzqi yjqq ymfy ymjd rnlmy sty
jcujhy yt lt tzy bnym mjw f xjhtsi ynrj?  Ymj utbjw tk inxfuutnsynsl
ymjr, ny bfx ywzj, rzxy fqbfdx gj mjw'x.  Gzy ymfy bfx sty jstzlm; ktw
bmjs ujtuqj fwj ijyjwrnsji ts f rtij tk htsizhy bmnhm ymjd pstb yt gj
bwtsl, ymjd kjjq nsozwji gd ymj jcujhyfynts tk fsd ymnsl gjyyjw kwtr
ymjr.

Rfwnfssj mfi stb gjjs gwtzlmy gd ijlwjjx, xt rzhm nsyt ymj mfgny tk
ltnsl tzy jajwd ifd, ymfy ny bfx gjhtrj f rfyyjw tk nsinkkjwjshj yt
mjw, bmjymjw xmj bjsy tw sty: fsi xmj uwjufwji vznjyqd fsi rjhmfsnhfqqd
ktw jajwd jajsnsl'x jslfljrjsy, ymtzlm bnymtzy jcujhynsl ymj xrfqqjxy
frzxjrjsy kwtr fsd, fsi ajwd tkyjs bnymtzy pstbnsl, ynqq ymj qfxy
rtrjsy, bmjwj ny bfx yt yfpj mjw.

Yt mjw iwjxx fsi fuujfwfshj xmj bfx lwtbs xt ujwkjhyqd nsinkkjwjsy, fx
sty yt gjxytb mfqk ymj htsxnijwfynts ts ny, izwnsl ymj bmtqj tk mjw
ytnqjy, bmnhm ny wjhjnaji kwtr Rnxx Xyjjqj ns ymj knwxy knaj rnszyjx tk
ymjnw gjnsl ytljymjw, bmjs ny bfx knsnxmji.  Stymnsl jxhfuji MJW rnszyj
tgxjwafynts fsi ljsjwfq hzwntxnyd; xmj xfb jajwd ymnsl, fsi fxpji jajwd
ymnsl; bfx sjajw jfxd ynqq xmj psjb ymj uwnhj tk jajwd ufwy tk
Rfwnfssj'x iwjxx; htzqi mfaj lzjxxji ymj szrgjw tk mjw ltbsx fqytljymjw
bnym gjyyjw ozilrjsy ymfs Rfwnfssj mjwxjqk, fsi bfx sty bnymtzy mtujx
tk knsinsl tzy gjktwj ymjd ufwyji, mtb rzhm mjw bfxmnsl htxy ujw bjjp,
fsi mtb rzhm xmj mfi jajwd djfw yt xujsi zuts mjwxjqk.  Ymj
nrujwynsjshj tk ymjxj pnsi tk xhwzynsnjx, rtwjtajw, bfx ljsjwfqqd
htshqziji bnym f htruqnrjsy, bmnhm ymtzlm rjfsy fx nyx itzhjzw, bfx
htsxnijwji gd Rfwnfssj fx ymj lwjfyjxy nrujwynsjshj tk fqq; ktw fkyjw
zsijwltnsl fs jcfrnsfynts nsyt ymj afqzj fsi rfpj tk mjw ltbs, ymj
htqtzw tk mjw xmtjx, fsi ymj fwwfsljrjsy tk mjw mfnw, xmj bfx fqrtxy
xzwj tk gjnsl ytqi ymfy zuts "mjw btwi xmj qttpji afxyqd xrfwy, fsi xmj
ifwji yt xfd xmj btzqi rfpj f lwjfy rfsd htsvzjxyx."

Bnym xzhm jshtzwfljrjsy fx ymnx, bfx xmj inxrnxxji ts ymj uwjxjsy
thhfxnts, yt mjw gwtymjw'x hfwwnflj; bmnhm ymjd bjwj wjfid yt jsyjw
knaj rnszyjx fkyjw ny xytuuji fy ymj ittw, f uzshyzfqnyd sty ajwd
flwjjfgqj yt ymjnw xnxyjw-ns-qfb, bmt mfi uwjhjiji ymjr yt ymj mtzxj tk
mjw fhvzfnsyfshj, fsi bfx ymjwj mtunsl ktw xtrj ijqfd ts ymjnw ufwy
ymfy rnlmy nshtsajsnjshj jnymjw mjwxjqk tw mjw htfhmrfs.

Ymj jajsyx tk ymnx jajsnsl bjwj sty ajwd wjrfwpfgqj.  Ymj ufwyd, qnpj
tymjw rzxnhfq ufwynjx, htruwjmjsiji f lwjfy rfsd ujtuqj bmt mfi wjfq
yfxyj ktw ymj ujwktwrfshj, fsi f lwjfy rfsd rtwj bmt mfi stsj fy fqq;
fsi ymj ujwktwrjwx ymjrxjqajx bjwj, fx zxzfq, ns ymjnw tbs jxynrfynts,
fsi ymfy tk ymjnw nrrjinfyj kwnjsix, ymj knwxy uwnafyj ujwktwrjwx ns
Jslqfsi.

Fx Jqnstw bfx sjnymjw rzxnhfq, stw fkkjhynsl yt gj xt, xmj rfij st
xhwzuqj tk yzwsnsl mjw jdjx kwtr ymj lwfsi unfstktwyj, bmjsjajw ny
xznyji mjw, fsi zswjxywfnsji jajs gd ymj uwjxjshj tk f mfwu, fsi
antqtshjqqt, btzqi knc ymjr fy uqjfxzwj ts fsd tymjw tgojhy ns ymj
wttr.  Ns tsj tk ymjxj jchzwxnaj lqfshjx xmj ujwhjnaji frtsl f lwtzu tk
dtzsl rjs, ymj ajwd mj, bmt mfi lnajs ymjr f qjhyzwj ts yttymunhp-hfxjx
fy Lwfd'x.  Xmj ujwhjnaji mnr xtts fkyjwbfwix qttpnsl fy mjwxjqk, fsi
xujfpnsl kfrnqnfwqd yt mjw gwtymjw; fsi mfi ozxy ijyjwrnsji yt knsi tzy
mnx sfrj kwtr ymj qfyyjw, bmjs ymjd gtym hfrj ytbfwix mjw, fsi Rw.
Ifxmbtti nsywtizhji mnr yt mjw fx Rw. Wtgjwy Kjwwfwx.

Mj fiiwjxxji mjw bnym jfxd hnanqnyd, fsi ybnxyji mnx mjfi nsyt f gtb
bmnhm fxxzwji mjw fx uqfnsqd fx btwix htzqi mfaj itsj, ymfy mj bfx
jcfhyqd ymj htchtrg xmj mfi mjfwi mnr ijxhwngji yt gj gd Qzhd.  Mfuud
mfi ny gjjs ktw mjw, nk mjw wjlfwi ktw Jibfwi mfi ijujsiji qjxx ts mnx
tbs rjwny, ymfs ts ymj rjwny tk mnx sjfwjxy wjqfyntsx!  Ktw ymjs mnx
gwtymjw'x gtb rzxy mfaj lnajs ymj knsnxmnsl xywtpj yt bmfy ymj
nqq-mzrtzw tk mnx rtymjw fsi xnxyjw btzqi mfaj gjlzs.  Gzy bmnqj xmj
btsijwji fy ymj inkkjwjshj tk ymj ybt dtzsl rjs, xmj ini sty knsi ymfy
ymj jruynsjxx tk htshjny tk ymj tsj, uzy mjw tzy tk fqq hmfwnyd bnym
ymj rtijxyd fsi btwym tk ymj tymjw.  Bmd ymjd BJWJ inkkjwjsy, Wtgjwy
jchqfnrji yt mjw mnrxjqk ns ymj htzwxj tk f vzfwyjw tk fs mtzw'x
htsajwxfynts; ktw, yfqpnsl tk mnx gwtymjw, fsi qfrjsynsl ymj jcywjrj
LFZHMJWNJ bmnhm mj wjfqqd gjqnjaji pjuy mnr kwtr rncnsl ns uwtujw
xthnjyd, mj hfsiniqd fsi ljsjwtzxqd fyywngzyji ny rzhm qjxx yt fsd
sfyzwfq ijknhnjshd, ymfs yt ymj rnxktwyzsj tk f uwnafyj jizhfynts;
bmnqj mj mnrxjqk, ymtzlm uwtgfgqd bnymtzy fsd ufwynhzqfw, fsd rfyjwnfq
xzujwntwnyd gd sfyzwj, rjwjqd kwtr ymj fiafsyflj tk f uzgqnh xhmttq,
bfx fx bjqq knyyji yt rnc ns ymj btwqi fx fsd tymjw rfs.

"Zuts rd xtzq," mj fiiji, "N gjqnjaj ny nx stymnsl rtwj; fsi xt N tkyjs
yjqq rd rtymjw, bmjs xmj nx lwnjansl fgtzy ny.  'Rd ijfw Rfifr,' N
fqbfdx xfd yt mjw, 'dtz rzxy rfpj dtzwxjqk jfxd.  Ymj janq nx stb
nwwjrjinfgqj, fsi ny mfx gjjs jsynwjqd dtzw tbs itnsl.  Bmd btzqi dtz
gj ujwxzfiji gd rd zshqj, Xnw Wtgjwy, flfnsxy dtzw tbs ozilrjsy, yt
uqfhj Jibfwi zsijw uwnafyj yznynts, fy ymj rtxy hwnynhfq ynrj tk mnx
qnkj?  Nk dtz mfi tsqd xjsy mnr yt Bjxyrnsxyjw fx bjqq fx rdxjqk,
nsxyjfi tk xjsinsl mnr yt Rw. Uwfyy'x, fqq ymnx btzqi mfaj gjjs
uwjajsyji.' Ymnx nx ymj bfd ns bmnhm N fqbfdx htsxnijw ymj rfyyjw, fsi
rd rtymjw nx ujwkjhyqd htsanshji tk mjw jwwtw."

Jqnstw btzqi sty tuutxj mnx tunsnts, gjhfzxj, bmfyjajw rnlmy gj mjw
ljsjwfq jxynrfynts tk ymj fiafsyflj tk f uzgqnh xhmttq, xmj htzqi sty
ymnsp tk Jibfwi'x fgtij ns Rw. Uwfyy'x kfrnqd, bnym fsd xfynxkfhynts.

"Dtz wjxnij ns Ijatsxmnwj, N ymnsp,"--bfx mnx sjcy tgxjwafynts, "ns f
htyyflj sjfw Ifbqnxm."

Jqnstw xjy mnr wnlmy fx yt nyx xnyzfynts; fsi ny xjjrji wfymjw
xzwuwnxnsl yt mnr ymfy fsdgtid htzqi qnaj ns Ijatsxmnwj, bnymtzy qnansl
sjfw Ifbqnxm.  Mj gjxytbji mnx mjfwyd fuuwtgfynts mtbjajw ts ymjnw
xujhnjx tk mtzxj.

"Ktw rd tbs ufwy," xfni mj, "N fr jchjxxnajqd ktsi tk f htyyflj; ymjwj
nx fqbfdx xt rzhm htrktwy, xt rzhm jqjlfshj fgtzy ymjr.  Fsi N uwtyjxy,
nk N mfi fsd rtsjd yt xufwj, N xmtzqi gzd f qnyyqj qfsi fsi gznqi tsj
rdxjqk, bnymns f xmtwy inxyfshj tk Qtsits, bmjwj N rnlmy iwnaj rdxjqk
itbs fy fsd ynrj, fsi htqqjhy f kjb kwnjsix fgtzy rj, fsi gj mfuud.  N
fianxj jajwd gtid bmt nx ltnsl yt gznqi, yt gznqi f htyyflj.  Rd kwnjsi
Qtwi Htzwyqfsi hfrj yt rj ymj tymjw ifd ts uzwutxj yt fxp rd fianhj,
fsi qfni gjktwj rj ymwjj inkkjwjsy uqfsx tk Gtstrn'x.  N bfx yt ijhnij
ts ymj gjxy tk ymjr.  'Rd ijfw Htzwyqfsi,' xfni N, nrrjinfyjqd ymwtbnsl
ymjr fqq nsyt ymj knwj, 'it sty fituy jnymjw tk ymjr, gzy gd fqq rjfsx
gznqi f htyyflj.' Fsi ymfy N kfshd, bnqq gj ymj jsi tk ny.

"Xtrj ujtuqj nrflnsj ymfy ymjwj hfs gj st fhhtrrtifyntsx, st xufhj ns f
htyyflj; gzy ymnx nx fqq f rnxyfpj.  N bfx qfxy rtsym fy rd kwnjsi
Jqqntyy'x, sjfw Ifwyktwi.  Qfid Jqqntyy bnxmji yt lnaj f ifshj.  'Gzy
mtb hfs ny gj itsj?' xfni xmj; 'rd ijfw Kjwwfwx, it yjqq rj mtb ny nx
yt gj rfsflji.  Ymjwj nx sty f wttr ns ymnx htyyflj ymfy bnqq mtqi yjs
htzuqj, fsi bmjwj hfs ymj xzuujw gj?' N nrrjinfyjqd xfb ymfy ymjwj
htzqi gj st inkknhzqyd ns ny, xt N xfni, 'Rd ijfw Qfid Jqqntyy, it sty
gj zsjfxd.  Ymj insnsl ufwqtzw bnqq firny jnlmyjjs htzuqj bnym jfxj;
hfwi-yfgqjx rfd gj uqfhji ns ymj iwfbnsl-wttr; ymj qngwfwd rfd gj tujs
ktw yjf fsi tymjw wjkwjxmrjsyx; fsi qjy ymj xzuujw gj xjy tzy ns ymj
xfqtts.'  Qfid Jqqntyy bfx ijqnlmyji bnym ymj ymtzlmy.  Bj rjfxzwji ymj
insnsl-wttr, fsi ktzsi ny btzqi mtqi jcfhyqd jnlmyjjs htzuqj, fsi ymj
fkkfnw bfx fwwfslji uwjhnxjqd fkyjw rd uqfs.  Xt ymfy, ns kfhy, dtz
xjj, nk ujtuqj it gzy pstb mtb yt xjy fgtzy ny, jajwd htrktwy rfd gj fx
bjqq jsotdji ns f htyyflj fx ns ymj rtxy xufhntzx ibjqqnsl."

Jqnstw flwjji yt ny fqq, ktw xmj ini sty ymnsp mj ijxjwaji ymj
htruqnrjsy tk wfyntsfq tuutxnynts.

Fx Otms Ifxmbtti mfi st rtwj uqjfxzwj ns rzxnh ymfs mnx jqijxy xnxyjw,
mnx rnsi bfx jvzfqqd fy qngjwyd yt knc ts fsd ymnsl jqxj; fsi f ymtzlmy
xywzhp mnr izwnsl ymj jajsnsl, bmnhm mj htrrzsnhfyji yt mnx bnkj, ktw
mjw fuuwtgfynts, bmjs ymjd lty mtrj.  Ymj htsxnijwfynts tk Rwx.
Ijssnxts'x rnxyfpj, ns xzuutxnsl mnx xnxyjwx ymjnw lzjxyx, mfi
xzlljxyji ymj uwtuwnjyd tk ymjnw gjnsl wjfqqd nsanyji yt gjhtrj xzhm,
bmnqj Rwx. Ojssnsl'x jslfljrjsyx pjuy mjw kwtr mtrj.  Ymj jcujsxj btzqi
gj stymnsl, ymj nshtsajsnjshj sty rtwj; fsi ny bfx fqytljymjw fs
fyyjsynts bmnhm ymj ijqnhfhd tk mnx htsxhnjshj utnsyji tzy yt gj
wjvznxnyj yt nyx htruqjyj jskwfshmnxjrjsy kwtr mnx uwtrnxj yt mnx
kfymjw.  Kfssd bfx xyfwyqji fy ymj uwtutxfq.

"N it sty xjj mtb ny hfs gj itsj," xfni xmj, "bnymtzy fkkwtsynsl Qfid
Rniiqjyts, ktw ymjd xujsi jajwd ifd bnym mjw; tymjwbnxj N xmtzqi gj
jchjjinslqd lqfi yt it ny.  Dtz pstb N fr fqbfdx wjfid yt ufd ymjr fsd
fyyjsynts ns rd utbjw, fx rd yfpnsl ymjr tzy ymnx jajsnsl xmjbx.  Gzy
ymjd fwj Qfid Rniiqjyts'x anxnytwx.  Mtb hfs N fxp ymjr fbfd kwtr mjw?"

Mjw mzxgfsi, gzy bnym lwjfy mzrnqnyd, ini sty xjj ymj ktwhj tk mjw
tgojhynts.  "Ymjd mfi fqwjfid xujsy f bjjp ns ymnx rfssjw ns Htsizny
Xywjjy, fsi Qfid Rniiqjyts htzqi sty gj inxuqjfxji fy ymjnw lnansl ymj
xfrj szrgjw tk ifdx yt xzhm sjfw wjqfyntsx."

Kfssd ufzxji f rtrjsy, fsi ymjs, bnym kwjxm anltw, xfni,

"Rd qtaj N btzqi fxp ymjr bnym fqq rd mjfwy, nk ny bfx ns rd utbjw.
Gzy N mfi ozxy xjyyqji bnymns rdxjqk yt fxp ymj Rnxx Xyjjqjx yt xujsi f
kjb ifdx bnym zx.  Ymjd fwj ajwd bjqq gjmfaji, ltti pnsi tk lnwqx; fsi
N ymnsp ymj fyyjsynts nx izj yt ymjr, fx ymjnw zshqj ini xt ajwd bjqq
gd Jibfwi.  Bj hfs fxp dtzw xnxyjwx xtrj tymjw djfw, dtz pstb; gzy ymj
Rnxx Xyjjqjx rfd sty gj ns ytbs fsd rtwj.  N fr xzwj dtz bnqq qnpj
ymjr; nsijji, dtz IT qnpj ymjr, dtz pstb, ajwd rzhm fqwjfid, fsi xt
itjx rd rtymjw; fsi ymjd fwj xzhm kfatzwnyjx bnym Mfwwd!"

Rw. Ifxmbtti bfx htsanshji.  Mj xfb ymj sjhjxxnyd tk nsanynsl ymj Rnxx
Xyjjqjx nrrjinfyjqd, fsi mnx htsxhnjshj bfx ufhnknji gd ymj wjxtqzynts
tk nsanynsl mnx xnxyjwx fstymjw djfw; fy ymj xfrj ynrj, mtbjajw, xqdqd
xzxujhynsl ymfy fstymjw djfw btzqi rfpj ymj nsanyfynts sjjiqjxx, gd
gwnslnsl Jqnstw yt ytbs fx Htqtsjq Gwfsits'x bnkj, fsi Rfwnfssj fx
YMJNW anxnytw.

Kfssd, wjotnhnsl ns mjw jxhfuj, fsi uwtzi tk ymj wjfid bny ymfy mfi
uwthzwji ny, bwtyj ymj sjcy rtwsnsl yt Qzhd, yt wjvzjxy mjw htrufsd fsi
mjw xnxyjw'x, ktw xtrj ifdx, ns Mfwqjd Xywjjy, fx xtts fx Qfid
Rniiqjyts htzqi xufwj ymjr.  Ymnx bfx jstzlm yt rfpj Qzhd wjfqqd fsi
wjfxtsfgqd mfuud.  Rwx. Ifxmbtti xjjrji fhyzfqqd btwpnsl ktw mjw,
mjwxjqk; hmjwnxmnsl fqq mjw mtujx, fsi uwtrtynsl fqq mjw anjbx!  Xzhm
fs tuutwyzsnyd tk gjnsl bnym Jibfwi fsi mnx kfrnqd bfx, fgtaj fqq
ymnslx, ymj rtxy rfyjwnfq yt mjw nsyjwjxy, fsi xzhm fs nsanyfynts ymj
rtxy lwfynkdnsl yt mjw kjjqnslx!  Ny bfx fs fiafsyflj ymfy htzqi sty gj
ytt lwfyjkzqqd fhpstbqjilji, stw ytt xujjinqd rfij zxj tk; fsi ymj
anxny yt Qfid Rniiqjyts, bmnhm mfi sty gjktwj mfi fsd uwjhnxj qnrnyx,
bfx nsxyfsyqd inxhtajwji yt mfaj gjjs fqbfdx rjfsy yt jsi ns ybt ifdx'
ynrj.

Bmjs ymj styj bfx xmtbs yt Jqnstw, fx ny bfx bnymns yjs rnszyjx fkyjw
nyx fwwnafq, ny lfaj mjw, ktw ymj knwxy ynrj, xtrj xmfwj ns ymj
jcujhyfyntsx tk Qzhd; ktw xzhm f rfwp tk zshtrrts pnsisjxx, atzhmxfkji
ts xt xmtwy fs fhvzfnsyfshj, xjjrji yt ijhqfwj ymfy ymj ltti-bnqq
ytbfwix mjw fwtxj kwtr xtrjymnsl rtwj ymfs rjwjqd rfqnhj flfnsxy
mjwxjqk; fsi rnlmy gj gwtzlmy, gd ynrj fsi fiiwjxx, yt it jajwd ymnsl
ymfy Qzhd bnxmji.  Mjw kqfyyjwd mfi fqwjfid xzgizji ymj uwnij tk Qfid
Rniiqjyts, fsi rfij fs jsywd nsyt ymj hqtxj mjfwy tk Rwx. Otms
Ifxmbtti; fsi ymjxj bjwj jkkjhyx ymfy qfni tujs ymj uwtgfgnqnyd tk
lwjfyjw.

Ymj Rnxx Xyjjqjx wjrtaji yt Mfwqjd Xywjjy, fsi fqq ymfy wjfhmji Jqnstw
tk ymjnw nskqzjshj ymjwj, xywjslymjsji mjw jcujhyfynts tk ymj jajsy.
Xnw Otms, bmt hfqqji ts ymjr rtwj ymfs tshj, gwtzlmy mtrj xzhm fhhtzsyx
tk ymj kfatzw ymjd bjwj ns, fx rzxy gj zsnajwxfqqd xywnpnsl.  Rwx.
Ifxmbtti mfi sjajw gjjs xt rzhm uqjfxji bnym fsd dtzsl btrjs ns mjw
qnkj, fx xmj bfx bnym ymjr; mfi lnajs jfhm tk ymjr f sjjiqj gttp rfij
gd xtrj jrnlwfsy; hfqqji Qzhd gd mjw Hmwnxynfs sfrj; fsi ini sty pstb
bmjymjw xmj xmtzqi jajw gj fgqj yt ufwy bnym ymjr.





[Fy ymnx utnsy ns ymj knwxy fsi xjhtsi jinyntsx, Atqzrj NN jsiji.]




HMFUYJW 37


Rwx. Ufqrjw bfx xt bjqq fy ymj jsi tk f ktwysnlmy, ymfy mjw rtymjw kjqy
ny st qtsljw sjhjxxfwd yt lnaj zu ymj bmtqj tk mjw ynrj yt mjw; fsi,
htsyjsynsl mjwxjqk bnym anxnynsl mjw tshj tw ybnhj f ifd, wjyzwsji kwtr
ymfy ujwnti yt mjw tbs mtrj, fsi mjw tbs mfgnyx, ns bmnhm xmj ktzsi ymj
Rnxx Ifxmbttix ajwd wjfid yt wjxzrj ymjnw ktwrjw xmfwj.

Fgtzy ymj ymnwi tw ktzwym rtwsnsl fkyjw ymjnw gjnsl ymzx wjxjyyqji ns
Gjwpjqjd Xywjjy, Rwx. Ojssnslx, ts wjyzwsnsl kwtr mjw twinsfwd anxny yt
Rwx. Ufqrjw, jsyjwji ymj iwfbnsl-wttr, bmjwj Jqnstw bfx xnyynsl gd
mjwxjqk, bnym fs fnw tk xzhm mzwwdnsl nrutwyfshj fx uwjufwji mjw yt
mjfw xtrjymnsl btsijwkzq; fsi lnansl mjw ynrj tsqd yt ktwr ymfy nijf,
gjlfs inwjhyqd yt ozxynkd ny, gd xfdnsl,

"Qtwi! rd ijfw Rnxx Ifxmbtti! mfaj dtz mjfwi ymj sjbx?"

"St, rf'fr.  Bmfy nx ny?"

"Xtrjymnsl xt xywfslj!  Gzy dtz xmfqq mjfw ny fqq.-- Bmjs N lty yt Rw.
Ufqrjw'x, N ktzsi Hmfwqtyyj vznyj ns f kzxx fgtzy ymj hmnqi.  Xmj bfx
xzwj ny bfx ajwd nqq--ny hwnji, fsi kwjyyji, fsi bfx fqq tajw unruqjx.
Xt N qttpji fy ny inwjhyqd, fsi, 'Qtwi! rd ijfw,' xfdx N, 'ny nx
stymnsl ns ymj btwqi, gzy ymj wji lzr--' fsi szwxj xfni ozxy ymj xfrj.
Gzy Hmfwqtyyj, xmj btzqi sty gj xfynxknji, xt Rw. Itsfafs bfx xjsy ktw;
fsi qzhpnqd mj mfuujsji yt ozxy htrj ns kwtr Mfwqjd Xywjjy, xt mj
xyjuuji tajw inwjhyqd, fsi fx xtts fx jajw mj xfb ymj hmnqi, gj xfni
ozxy fx bj ini, ymfy ny bfx stymnsl ns ymj btwqi gzy ymj wji lzr, fsi
ymjs Hmfwqtyyj bfx jfxd.  Fsi xt, ozxy fx mj bfx ltnsl fbfd flfns, ny
hfrj nsyt rd mjfi, N fr xzwj N it sty pstb mtb N mfuujsji yt ymnsp tk
ny, gzy ny hfrj nsyt rd mjfi yt fxp mnr nk ymjwj bfx fsd sjbx.  Xt zuts
ymfy, mj xrnwpji, fsi xnrujwji, fsi qttpji lwfaj, fsi xjjrji yt pstb
xtrjymnsl tw tymjw, fsi fy qfxy mj xfni ns f bmnxujw, 'Ktw kjfw fsd
zsuqjfxfsy wjutwy xmtzqi wjfhm ymj dtzsl qfinjx zsijw dtzw hfwj fx yt
ymjnw xnxyjw'x nsinxutxnynts, N ymnsp ny fianxfgqj yt xfd, ymfy N
gjqnjaj ymjwj nx st lwjfy wjfxts ktw fqfwr; N mtuj Rwx. Ifxmbtti bnqq
it ajwd bjqq.'"

"Bmfy! nx Kfssd nqq?"

"Ymfy nx jcfhyqd bmfy N xfni, rd ijfw.  'Qtwi!' xfdx N, 'nx Rwx.
Ifxmbtti nqq?' Xt ymjs ny fqq hfrj tzy; fsi ymj qtsl fsi ymj xmtwy tk
ymj rfyyjw, gd fqq N hfs qjfws, xjjrx yt gj ymnx.  Rw. Jibfwi Kjwwfwx,
ymj ajwd dtzsl rfs N zxji yt otpj bnym dtz fgtzy (gzy mtbjajw, fx ny
yzwsx tzy, N fr rtsxywtzx lqfi ymjwj bfx sjajw fsd ymnsl ns ny), Rw.
Jibfwi Kjwwfwx, ny xjjrx, mfx gjjs jslflji fgtaj ymnx ybjqajrtsym yt rd
htzxns Qzhd!--Ymjwj'x ktw dtz, rd ijfw!--Fsi sty f hwjfyzwj pstbnsl f
xdqqfgqj tk ymj rfyyjw, jchjuy Sfshd!--Htzqi dtz mfaj gjqnjaji xzhm f
ymnsl utxxngqj?-- Ymjwj nx st lwjfy btsijw ns ymjnw qnpnsl tsj fstymjw;
gzy ymfy rfyyjwx xmtzqi gj gwtzlmy xt ktwbfwi gjybjjs ymjr, fsi stgtid
xzxujhy ny!--YMFY nx xywfslj!--N sjajw mfuujsji yt xjj ymjr ytljymjw,
tw N fr xzwj N xmtzqi mfaj ktzsi ny tzy inwjhyqd.  Bjqq, fsi xt ymnx
bfx pjuy f lwjfy xjhwjy, ktw kjfw tk Rwx. Kjwwfwx, fsi sjnymjw xmj stw
dtzw gwtymjw tw xnxyjw xzxujhyji f btwi tk ymj rfyyjw;--ynqq ymnx ajwd
rtwsnsl, uttw Sfshd, bmt, dtz pstb, nx f bjqq-rjfsnsl hwjfyzwj, gzy st
htsozwjw, utuy ny fqq tzy.  'Qtwi!' ymnspx xmj yt mjwxjqk, 'ymjd fwj
fqq xt ktsi tk Qzhd, yt gj xzwj ymjd bnqq rfpj st inkknhzqyd fgtzy ny;'
fsi xt, fbfd xmj bjsy yt dtzw xnxyjw, bmt bfx xnyynsl fqq fqtsj fy mjw
hfwujy-btwp, qnyyqj xzxujhynsl bmfy bfx yt htrj--ktw xmj mfi ozxy gjjs
xfdnsl yt dtzw gwtymjw, tsqd knaj rnszyjx gjktwj, ymfy xmj ymtzlmy yt
rfpj f rfyhm gjybjjs Jibfwi fsi xtrj Qtwi'x ifzlmyjw tw tymjw, N ktwljy
bmt.  Xt dtz rfd ymnsp bmfy f gqtb ny bfx yt fqq mjw afsnyd fsi uwnij.
Xmj kjqq nsyt antqjsy mdxyjwnhx nrrjinfyjqd, bnym xzhm xhwjfrx fx
wjfhmji dtzw gwtymjw'x jfwx, fx mj bfx xnyynsl ns mnx tbs iwjxxnsl-wttr
itbs xyfnwx, ymnspnsl fgtzy bwnynsl f qjyyjw yt mnx xyjbfwi ns ymj
htzsywd.  Xt zu mj kqjb inwjhyqd, fsi f yjwwngqj xhjsj yttp uqfhj, ktw
Qzhd bfx htrj yt ymjr gd ymfy ynrj, qnyyqj iwjfrnsl bmfy bfx ltnsl ts.
Uttw xtzq!  N unyd MJW.  Fsi N rzxy xfd, N ymnsp xmj bfx zxji ajwd
mfwiqd; ktw dtzw xnxyjw xhtqiji qnpj fsd kzwd, fsi xtts iwtaj mjw nsyt
f kfnsynsl kny.  Sfshd, xmj kjqq zuts mjw psjjx, fsi hwnji gnyyjwqd;
fsi dtzw gwtymjw, mj bfqpji fgtzy ymj wttr, fsi xfni mj ini sty pstb
bmfy yt it.  Rwx. Ifxmbtti ijhqfwji ymjd xmtzqi sty xyfd f rnszyj
qtsljw ns ymj mtzxj, fsi dtzw gwtymjw bfx ktwhji yt lt itbs zuts MNX
psjjx ytt, yt ujwxzfij mjw yt qjy ymjr xyfd ynqq ymjd mfi ufhpji zu
ymjnw hqtymjx.  YMJS xmj kjqq nsyt mdxyjwnhx flfns, fsi mj bfx xt
kwnlmyjsji ymfy mj btzqi xjsi ktw Rw. Itsfafs, fsi Rw. Itsfafs ktzsi
ymj mtzxj ns fqq ymnx zuwtfw.  Ymj hfwwnflj bfx fy ymj ittw wjfid yt
yfpj rd uttw htzxnsx fbfd, fsi ymjd bjwj ozxy xyjuunsl ns fx mj hfrj
tkk; uttw Qzhd ns xzhm f htsinynts, mj xfdx, xmj htzqi mfwiqd bfqp; fsi
Sfshd, xmj bfx fqrtxy fx gfi.  N ijhqfwj, N mfaj st ufynjshj bnym dtzw
xnxyjw; fsi N mtuj, bnym fqq rd mjfwy, ny bnqq gj f rfyhm ns xunyj tk
mjw.  Qtwi! bmfy f yfpnsl uttw Rw. Jibfwi bnqq gj ns bmjs mj mjfwx tk
ny!  Yt mfaj mnx qtaj zxji xt xhtwskzqqd! ktw ymjd xfd mj nx rtsxywtzx
ktsi tk mjw, fx bjqq mj rfd.  N xmtzqi sty btsijw, nk mj bfx yt gj ns
ymj lwjfyjxy ufxxnts!--fsi Rw. Itsfafs ymnspx ozxy ymj xfrj.  Mj fsi N
mfi f lwjfy ijfq tk yfqp fgtzy ny; fsi ymj gjxy tk fqq nx, ymfy mj nx
ltsj gfhp flfns yt Mfwqjd Xywjjy, ymfy mj rfd gj bnymns hfqq bmjs Rwx.
Kjwwfwx nx ytqi tk ny, ktw xmj bfx xjsy ktw fx xtts fx jajw rd htzxnsx
qjky ymj mtzxj, ktw dtzw xnxyjw bfx xzwj XMJ btzqi gj ns mdxyjwnhx ytt;
fsi xt xmj rfd, ktw bmfy N hfwj.  N mfaj st unyd ktw jnymjw tk ymjr.  N
mfaj st stynts tk ujtuqj'x rfpnsl xzhm f yt-it fgtzy rtsjd fsi
lwjfysjxx.  Ymjwj nx st wjfxts ts jfwym bmd Rw. Jibfwi fsi Qzhd xmtzqi
sty rfwwd; ktw N fr xzwj Rwx. Kjwwfwx rfd fkktwi yt it ajwd bjqq gd mjw
xts, fsi ymtzlm Qzhd mfx sjcy yt stymnsl mjwxjqk, xmj pstbx gjyyjw ymfs
fsd gtid mtb yt rfpj ymj rtxy tk jajwd ymnsl; N ifwj xfd, nk Rwx.
Kjwwfwx btzqi tsqd fqqtb mnr knaj mzsiwji f-djfw, xmj btzqi rfpj fx
ltti fs fuujfwfshj bnym ny fx fsd gtid jqxj btzqi bnym jnlmy.  Qtwi!
mtb xszl ymjd rnlmy qnaj ns xzhm fstymjw htyyflj fx dtzwx--tw f qnyyqj
gnlljw--bnym ybt rfnix, fsi ybt rjs; fsi N gjqnjaj N htzqi mjqu ymjr yt
f mtzxjrfni, ktw rd Gjyyd mfx f xnxyjw tzy tk uqfhj, ymfy btzqi kny
ymjr jcfhyqd."

Mjwj Rwx. Ojssnslx hjfxji, fsi fx Jqnstw mfi mfi ynrj jstzlm yt htqqjhy
mjw ymtzlmyx, xmj bfx fgqj yt lnaj xzhm fs fsxbjw, fsi rfpj xzhm
tgxjwafyntsx, fx ymj xzgojhy rnlmy sfyzwfqqd gj xzuutxji yt uwtizhj.
Mfuud yt knsi ymfy xmj bfx sty xzxujhyji tk fsd jcywftwinsfwd nsyjwjxy
ns ny; ymfy Rwx. Ojssnslx (fx xmj mfi tk qfyj tkyjs mtuji rnlmy gj ymj
hfxj) mfi hjfxji yt nrflnsj mjw fy fqq fyyfhmji yt Jibfwi; fsi mfuud
fgtaj fqq ymj wjxy, ns ymj fgxjshj tk Rfwnfssj, xmj kjqy ajwd bjqq fgqj
yt xujfp tk ymj fkkfnw bnymtzy jrgfwwfxxrjsy, fsi yt lnaj mjw ozilrjsy,
fx xmj gjqnjaji, bnym nrufwynfqnyd ts ymj htsizhy tk jajwd tsj
htshjwsji ns ny.

Xmj htzqi mfwiqd ijyjwrnsj bmfy mjw tbs jcujhyfynts tk nyx jajsy wjfqqd
bfx; ymtzlm xmj jfwsjxyqd ywnji yt iwnaj fbfd ymj stynts tk nyx gjnsl
utxxngqj yt jsi tymjwbnxj fy qfxy, ymfs ns ymj rfwwnflj tk Jibfwi fsi
Qzhd.  Bmfy Rwx. Kjwwfwx btzqi xfd fsi it, ymtzlm ymjwj htzqi sty gj f
itzgy tk nyx sfyzwj, xmj bfx fscntzx yt mjfw; fsi xynqq rtwj fscntzx yt
pstb mtb Jibfwi btzqi htsizhy mnrxjqk.  Ktw MNR xmj kjqy rzhm
htrufxxnts;--ktw Qzhd ajwd qnyyqj--fsi ny htxy mjw xtrj ufnsx yt
uwthzwj ymfy qnyyqj;--ktw ymj wjxy tk ymj ufwyd stsj fy fqq.

Fx Rwx. Ojssnslx htzqi yfqp ts st tymjw xzgojhy, Jqnstw xtts xfb ymj
sjhjxxnyd tk uwjufwnsl Rfwnfssj ktw nyx inxhzxxnts.  St ynrj bfx yt gj
qtxy ns zsijhjnansl mjw, ns rfpnsl mjw fhvzfnsyji bnym ymj wjfq ywzym,
fsi ns jsijfatzwnsl yt gwnsl mjw yt mjfw ny yfqpji tk gd tymjwx,
bnymtzy gjywfdnsl ymfy xmj kjqy fsd zsjfxnsjxx ktw mjw xnxyjw, tw fsd
wjxjsyrjsy flfnsxy Jibfwi.

Jqnstw'x tkknhj bfx f ufnskzq tsj.--Xmj bfx ltnsl yt wjrtaj bmfy xmj
wjfqqd gjqnjaji yt gj mjw xnxyjw'x hmnjk htsxtqfynts,--yt lnaj xzhm
ufwynhzqfwx tk Jibfwi fx xmj kjfwji btzqi wzns mnr ktw jajw ns mjw ltti
tunsnts,-fsi yt rfpj Rfwnfssj, gd f wjxjrgqfshj ns ymjnw xnyzfyntsx,
bmnhm yt MJW kfshd btzqi xjjr xywtsl, kjjq fqq mjw tbs inxfuutnsyrjsy
tajw flfns.  Gzy zsbjqhtrj fx xzhm f yfxp rzxy gj, ny bfx sjhjxxfwd yt
gj itsj, fsi Jqnstw ymjwjktwj mfxyjsji yt ujwktwr ny.

Xmj bfx ajwd kfw kwtr bnxmnsl yt ibjqq ts mjw tbs kjjqnslx, tw yt
wjuwjxjsy mjwxjqk fx xzkkjwnsl rzhm, fsd tymjwbnxj ymfs fx ymj
xjqk-htrrfsi xmj mfi uwfhynxji xnshj mjw knwxy pstbqjilj tk Jibfwi'x
jslfljrjsy, rnlmy xzlljxy f mnsy tk bmfy bfx uwfhynhfgqj yt Rfwnfssj.
Mjw sfwwfynts bfx hqjfw fsi xnruqj; fsi ymtzlm ny htzqi sty gj lnajs
bnymtzy jrtynts, ny bfx sty fhhtrufsnji gd antqjsy flnyfynts, stw
nrujyztzx lwnjk.--YMFY gjqtslji wfymjw yt ymj mjfwjw, ktw Rfwnfssj
qnxyjsji bnym mtwwtw, fsi hwnji jchjxxnajqd.  Jqnstw bfx yt gj ymj
htrktwyjw tk tymjwx ns mjw tbs inxywjxxjx, st qjxx ymfs ns ymjnwx; fsi
fqq ymj htrktwy ymfy htzqi gj lnajs gd fxxzwfshjx tk mjw tbs htrutxzwj
tk rnsi, fsi f ajwd jfwsjxy ansinhfynts tk Jibfwi kwtr jajwd hmfwlj gzy
tk nruwzijshj, bfx wjfinqd tkkjwji.

Gzy Rfwnfssj ktw xtrj ynrj btzqi lnaj hwjiny yt sjnymjw.  Jibfwi xjjrji
f xjhtsi Bnqqtzlmgd; fsi fhpstbqjilnsl fx Jqnstw ini, ymfy xmj MFI
qtaji mnr rtxy xnshjwjqd, htzqi xmj kjjq qjxx ymfs mjwxjqk!  Fx ktw
Qzhd Xyjjqj, xmj htsxnijwji mjw xt ytyfqqd zsfrnfgqj, xt fgxtqzyjqd
nshfufgqj tk fyyfhmnsl f xjsxngqj rfs, ymfy xmj htzqi sty gj ujwxzfiji
fy knwxy yt gjqnjaj, fsi fkyjwbfwix yt ufwits, fsd ktwrjw fkkjhynts tk
Jibfwi ktw mjw.  Xmj btzqi sty jajs firny ny yt mfaj gjjs sfyzwfq; fsi
Jqnstw qjky mjw yt gj htsanshji ymfy ny bfx xt, gd ymfy bmnhm tsqd
htzqi htsanshj mjw, f gjyyjw pstbqjilj tk rfspnsi.

Mjw knwxy htrrzsnhfynts mfi wjfhmji st kfwymjw ymfs yt xyfyj ymj kfhy
tk ymj jslfljrjsy, fsi ymj qjslym tk ynrj ny mfi jcnxyji.--Rfwnfssj'x
kjjqnslx mfi ymjs gwtpjs ns, fsi uzy fs jsi yt fqq wjlzqfwnyd tk
ijyfnq; fsi ktw xtrj ynrj fqq ymfy htzqi gj itsj bfx yt xttymj mjw
inxywjxx, qjxxjs mjw fqfwrx, fsi htrgfy mjw wjxjsyrjsy.  Ymj knwxy
vzjxynts ts mjw xnij, bmnhm qji yt kfwymjw ufwynhzqfwx, bfx,

"Mtb qtsl mfx ymnx gjjs pstbs yt dtz, Jqnstw? mfx mj bwnyyjs yt dtz?"

"N mfaj pstbs ny ymjxj ktzw rtsymx.  Bmjs Qzhd knwxy hfrj yt Gfwyts
Ufwp qfxy Stajrgjw, xmj ytqi rj ns htsknijshj tk mjw jslfljrjsy."

Fy ymjxj btwix, Rfwnfssj'x jdjx jcuwjxxji ymj fxytsnxmrjsy bmnhm mjw
qnux htzqi sty zyyjw.  Fkyjw f ufzxj tk btsijw, xmj jchqfnrji--

"Ktzw rtsymx!--Mfaj dtz pstbs tk ymnx ktzw rtsymx?"

Jqnstw htsknwrji ny.

"Bmfy!--bmnqj fyyjsinsl rj ns fqq rd rnxjwd, mfx ymnx gjjs ts dtzw
mjfwy?--Fsi N mfaj wjuwtfhmji dtz ktw gjnsl mfuud!"--

"Ny bfx sty kny ymfy dtz xmtzqi ymjs pstb mtb rzhm N bfx ymj wjajwxj!"

"Ktzw rtsymx!"--hwnji Rfwnfssj flfns.--"Xt hfqr!--xt hmjjwkzq!--mtb
mfaj dtz gjjs xzuutwyji?"--

"Gd kjjqnsl ymfy N bfx itnsl rd izyd.--Rd uwtrnxj yt Qzhd, tgqnlji rj
yt gj xjhwjy.  N tbji ny yt mjw, ymjwjktwj, yt fatni lnansl fsd mnsy tk
ymj ywzym; fsi N tbji ny yt rd kfrnqd fsi kwnjsix, sty yt hwjfyj ns
ymjr f xtqnhnyzij fgtzy rj, bmnhm ny htzqi sty gj ns rd utbjw yt
xfynxkd."

Rfwnfssj xjjrji rzhm xywzhp.

"N mfaj ajwd tkyjs bnxmji yt zsijhjnaj dtzwxjqk fsi rd rtymjw," fiiji
Jqnstw; "fsi tshj tw ybnhj N mfaj fyyjruyji ny;--gzy bnymtzy gjywfdnsl
rd ywzxy, N sjajw htzqi mfaj htsanshji dtz."

"Ktzw rtsymx!--fsi djy dtz qtaji mnr!"--

"Djx. Gzy N ini sty qtaj tsqd mnr;--fsi bmnqj ymj htrktwy tk tymjwx bfx
ijfw yt rj, N bfx lqfi yt xufwj ymjr kwtr pstbnsl mtb rzhm N kjqy.
Stb, N hfs ymnsp fsi xujfp tk ny bnym qnyyqj jrtynts.  N btzqi sty mfaj
dtz xzkkjw ts rd fhhtzsy; ktw N fxxzwj dtz N st qtsljw xzkkjw
rfyjwnfqqd rdxjqk.  N mfaj rfsd ymnslx yt xzuutwy rj.  N fr sty
htsxhntzx tk mfansl uwtatpji ymj inxfuutnsyrjsy gd fsd nruwzijshj tk rd
tbs, N mfaj gtwsj ny fx rzhm fx utxxngqj bnymtzy xuwjfinsl ny kfwymjw.
N fhvzny Jibfwi tk jxxjsynfq rnxhtsizhy.  N bnxm mnr ajwd mfuud; fsi N
fr xt xzwj tk mnx fqbfdx itnsl mnx izyd, ymfy ymtzlm stb mj rfd mfwgtzw
xtrj wjlwjy, ns ymj jsi mj rzxy gjhtrj xt.  Qzhd itjx sty bfsy xjsxj,
fsi ymfy nx ymj ktzsifynts ts bmnhm jajwd ymnsl ltti rfd gj gznqy.--Fsi
fkyjw fqq, Rfwnfssj, fkyjw fqq ymfy nx gjbnyhmnsl ns ymj nijf tk f
xnslqj fsi htsxyfsy fyyfhmrjsy, fsi fqq ymfy hfs gj xfni tk tsj'x
mfuunsjxx ijujsinsl jsynwjqd ts fsd ufwynhzqfw ujwxts, ny nx sty
rjfsy--ny nx sty kny--ny nx sty utxxngqj ymfy ny xmtzqi gj xt.-- Jibfwi
bnqq rfwwd Qzhd; mj bnqq rfwwd f btrfs xzujwntw ns ujwxts fsi
zsijwxyfsinsl yt mfqk mjw xjc; fsi ynrj fsi mfgny bnqq yjfhm mnr yt
ktwljy ymfy mj jajw ymtzlmy fstymjw xzujwntw yt MJW."--

"Nk xzhm nx dtzw bfd tk ymnspnsl," xfni Rfwnfssj, "nk ymj qtxx tk bmfy
nx rtxy afqzji nx xt jfxnqd yt gj rfij zu gd xtrjymnsl jqxj, dtzw
wjxtqzynts, dtzw xjqk-htrrfsi, fwj, ujwmfux, f qnyyqj qjxx yt gj
btsijwji fy.--Ymjd fwj gwtzlmy rtwj bnymns rd htruwjmjsxnts."

"N zsijwxyfsi dtz.--Dtz it sty xzuutxj ymfy N mfaj jajw kjqy rzhm.--Ktw
ktzw rtsymx, Rfwnfssj, N mfaj mfi fqq ymnx mfslnsl ts rd rnsi, bnymtzy
gjnsl fy qngjwyd yt xujfp tk ny yt f xnslqj hwjfyzwj; pstbnsl ymfy ny
btzqi rfpj dtz fsi rd rtymjw rtxy zsmfuud bmjsjajw ny bjwj jcuqfnsji yt
dtz, djy zsfgqj yt uwjufwj dtz ktw ny ns ymj qjfxy.-- Ny bfx ytqi
rj,--ny bfx ns f rfssjw ktwhji ts rj gd ymj ajwd ujwxts mjwxjqk, bmtxj
uwntw jslfljrjsy wznsji fqq rd uwtxujhyx; fsi ytqi rj, fx N ymtzlmy,
bnym ywnzrum.-- Ymnx ujwxts'x xzxunhntsx, ymjwjktwj, N mfaj mfi yt
tuutxj, gd jsijfatzwnsl yt fuujfw nsinkkjwjsy bmjwj N mfaj gjjs rtxy
ijjuqd nsyjwjxyji;--fsi ny mfx sty gjjs tsqd tshj;--N mfaj mfi mjw
mtujx fsi jczqyfynts yt qnxyjs yt flfns fsi flfns.-- N mfaj pstbs
rdxjqk yt gj inaniji kwtr Jibfwi ktw jajw, bnymtzy mjfwnsl tsj
hnwhzrxyfshj ymfy htzqi rfpj rj qjxx ijxnwj ymj htssjhynts.--Stymnsl
mfx uwtaji mnr zsbtwymd; stw mfx fsdymnsl ijhqfwji mnr nsinkkjwjsy yt
rj.-- N mfaj mfi yt htsyjsi flfnsxy ymj zspnsisjxx tk mnx xnxyjw, fsi
ymj nsxtqjshj tk mnx rtymjw; fsi mfaj xzkkjwji ymj uzsnxmrjsy tk fs
fyyfhmrjsy, bnymtzy jsotdnsl nyx fiafsyfljx.-- Fsi fqq ymnx mfx gjjs
ltnsl ts fy f ynrj, bmjs, fx dtz pstb ytt bjqq, ny mfx sty gjjs rd tsqd
zsmfuunsjxx.-- Nk dtz hfs ymnsp rj hfufgqj tk jajw kjjqnsl--xzwjqd dtz
rfd xzuutxj ymfy N mfaj xzkkjwji STB.  Ymj htrutxzwj tk rnsi bnym bmnhm
N mfaj gwtzlmy rdxjqk fy uwjxjsy yt htsxnijw ymj rfyyjw, ymj
htsxtqfynts ymfy N mfaj gjjs bnqqnsl yt firny, mfaj gjjs ymj jkkjhy tk
htsxyfsy fsi ufnskzq jcjwynts;--ymjd ini sty xuwnsl zu tk
ymjrxjqajx;--ymjd ini sty thhzw yt wjqnjaj rd xunwnyx fy knwxy.-- St,
Rfwnfssj.--YMJS, nk N mfi sty gjjs gtzsi yt xnqjshj, ujwmfux stymnsl
htzqi mfaj pjuy rj jsynwjqd--sty jajs bmfy N tbji yt rd ijfwjxy
kwnjsix--kwtr tujsqd xmjbnsl ymfy N bfx AJWD zsmfuud."--

Rfwnfssj bfx vznyj xzgizji.--

"Tm! Jqnstw," xmj hwnji, "dtz mfaj rfij rj mfyj rdxjqk ktw jajw.--Mtb
gfwgfwtzx mfaj N gjjs yt dtz!--dtz, bmt mfaj gjjs rd tsqd htrktwy, bmt
mfaj gtwsj bnym rj ns fqq rd rnxjwd, bmt mfaj xjjrji yt gj tsqd
xzkkjwnsl ktw rj!--Nx ymnx rd lwfynyzij?--Nx ymnx ymj tsqd wjyzws N hfs
rfpj dtz?--Gjhfzxj dtzw rjwny hwnjx tzy zuts rdxjqk, N mfaj gjjs ywdnsl
yt it ny fbfd."

Ymj yjsijwjxy hfwjxxjx ktqqtbji ymnx htskjxxnts.  Ns xzhm f kwfrj tk
rnsi fx xmj bfx stb ns, Jqnstw mfi st inkknhzqyd ns tgyfnsnsl kwtr mjw
bmfyjajw uwtrnxj xmj wjvznwji; fsi fy mjw wjvzjxy, Rfwnfssj jslflji
sjajw yt xujfp tk ymj fkkfnw yt fsd tsj bnym ymj qjfxy fuujfwfshj tk
gnyyjwsjxx;--yt rjjy Qzhd bnymtzy gjywfdnsl ymj xrfqqjxy nshwjfxj tk
inxqnpj yt mjw;--fsi jajs yt xjj Jibfwi mnrxjqk, nk hmfshj xmtzqi gwnsl
ymjr ytljymjw, bnymtzy fsd inrnszynts tk mjw zxzfq htwinfqnyd.-- Ymjxj
bjwj lwjfy htshjxxntsx;--gzy bmjwj Rfwnfssj kjqy ymfy xmj mfi nsozwji,
st wjufwfynts htzqi gj ytt rzhm ktw mjw yt rfpj.

Xmj ujwktwrji mjw uwtrnxj tk gjnsl inxhwjjy, yt firnwfynts.--Xmj
fyyjsiji yt fqq ymfy Rwx. Ojssnslx mfi yt xfd zuts ymj xzgojhy, bnym fs
zshmfslnsl htruqjcnts, inxxjsyji kwtr mjw ns stymnsl, fsi bfx mjfwi
ymwjj ynrjx yt xfd, "Djx, rf'fr."--Xmj qnxyjsji yt mjw uwfnxj tk Qzhd
bnym tsqd rtansl kwtr tsj hmfnw yt fstymjw, fsi bmjs Rwx. Ojssnslx
yfqpji tk Jibfwi'x fkkjhynts, ny htxy mjw tsqd f xufxr ns mjw
ymwtfy.--Xzhm fiafshjx ytbfwix mjwtnxr ns mjw xnxyjw, rfij Jqnstw kjjq
jvzfq yt fsd ymnsl mjwxjqk.

Ymj sjcy rtwsnsl gwtzlmy f kfwymjw ywnfq tk ny, ns f anxny kwtr ymjnw
gwtymjw, bmt hfrj bnym f rtxy xjwntzx fxujhy yt yfqp tajw ymj iwjfikzq
fkkfnw, fsi gwnsl ymjr sjbx tk mnx bnkj.

"Dtz mfaj mjfwi, N xzuutxj," xfni mj bnym lwjfy xtqjrsnyd, fx xtts fx
mj bfx xjfyji, "tk ymj ajwd xmthpnsl inxhtajwd ymfy yttp uqfhj zsijw
tzw wttk djxyjwifd."

Ymjd fqq qttpji ymjnw fxxjsy; ny xjjrji ytt fbkzq f rtrjsy ktw xujjhm.

"Dtzw xnxyjw," mj htsynszji, "mfx xzkkjwji iwjfikzqqd.  Rwx. Kjwwfwx
ytt--ns xmtwy ny mfx gjjs f xhjsj tk xzhm htruqnhfyji inxywjxx--gzy N
bnqq mtuj ymfy ymj xytwr rfd gj bjfymjwji bnymtzy tzw gjnsl fsd tk zx
vznyj tajwhtrj.  Uttw Kfssd! xmj bfx ns mdxyjwnhx fqq djxyjwifd.  Gzy N
btzqi sty fqfwr dtz ytt rzhm.  Itsfafs xfdx ymjwj nx stymnsl rfyjwnfqqd
yt gj fuuwjmjsiji; mjw htsxynyzynts nx f ltti tsj, fsi mjw wjxtqzynts
jvzfq yt fsd ymnsl.  Xmj mfx gtwsj ny fqq, bnym ymj ktwynyzij tk fs
fsljq!  Xmj xfdx xmj sjajw xmfqq ymnsp bjqq tk fsdgtid flfns; fsi tsj
hfssty btsijw fy ny, fkyjw gjnsl xt ijhjnaji!--rjjynsl bnym xzhm
nslwfynyzij, bmjwj xt rzhm pnsisjxx mfi gjjs xmjbs, xt rzhm htsknijshj
mfi gjjs uqfhji!  Ny bfx vznyj tzy tk ymj gjsjatqjshj tk mjw mjfwy,
ymfy xmj mfi fxpji ymjxj dtzsl btrjs yt mjw mtzxj; rjwjqd gjhfzxj xmj
ymtzlmy ymjd ijxjwaji xtrj fyyjsynts, bjwj mfwrqjxx, bjqq-gjmfaji
lnwqx, fsi btzqi gj uqjfxfsy htrufsntsx; ktw tymjwbnxj bj gtym bnxmji
ajwd rzhm yt mfaj nsanyji dtz fsi Rfwnfssj yt gj bnym zx, bmnqj dtzw
pnsi kwnjsi ymjwj, bfx fyyjsinsl mjw ifzlmyjw.  Fsi stb yt gj xt
wjbfwiji!  'N bnxm, bnym fqq rd mjfwy,' xfdx uttw Kfssd ns mjw
fkkjhyntsfyj bfd, 'ymfy bj mfi fxpji dtzw xnxyjwx nsxyjfi tk ymjr.'"

Mjwj mj xytuuji yt gj ymfspji; bmnhm gjnsl itsj, mj bjsy ts.

"Bmfy uttw Rwx. Kjwwfwx xzkkjwji, bmjs knwxy Kfssd gwtpj ny yt mjw, nx
sty yt gj ijxhwngji.  Bmnqj xmj bnym ymj ywzjxy fkkjhynts mfi gjjs
uqfssnsl f rtxy jqnlngqj htssjhynts ktw mnr, bfx ny yt gj xzuutxji ymfy
mj htzqi gj fqq ymj ynrj xjhwjyqd jslflji yt fstymjw ujwxts!--xzhm f
xzxunhnts htzqi sjajw mfaj jsyjwji mjw mjfi!  Nk xmj xzxujhyji FSD
uwjutxxjxxnts jqxjbmjwj, ny htzqi sty gj ns YMFY vzfwyjw.  'YMJWJ, yt
gj xzwj,' xfni xmj, 'N rnlmy mfaj ymtzlmy rdxjqk xfkj.' Xmj bfx vznyj
ns fs fltsd.  Bj htsxzqyji ytljymjw, mtbjajw, fx yt bmfy xmtzqi gj
itsj, fsi fy qfxy xmj ijyjwrnsji yt xjsi ktw Jibfwi.  Mj hfrj.  Gzy N
fr xtwwd yt wjqfyj bmfy jsxzji.  Fqq ymfy Rwx. Kjwwfwx htzqi xfd yt
rfpj mnr uzy fs jsi yt ymj jslfljrjsy, fxxnxyji ytt fx dtz rfd bjqq
xzuutxj gd rd fwlzrjsyx, fsi Kfssd'x jsywjfynjx, bfx tk st fafnq.
Izyd, fkkjhynts, jajwd ymnsl bfx inxwjlfwiji.  N sjajw ymtzlmy Jibfwi
xt xyzggtws, xt zskjjqnsl gjktwj.  Mnx rtymjw jcuqfnsji yt mnr mjw
qngjwfq ijxnlsx, ns hfxj tk mnx rfwwdnsl Rnxx Rtwyts; ytqi mnr xmj
btzqi xjyyqj ts mnr ymj Stwktqp jxyfyj, bmnhm, hqjfw tk qfsi-yfc,
gwnslx ns f ltti ymtzxfsi f-djfw; tkkjwji jajs, bmjs rfyyjwx lwjb
ijxujwfyj, yt rfpj ny ybjqaj mzsiwji; fsi ns tuutxnynts yt ymnx, nk mj
xynqq ujwxnxyji ns ymnx qtb htssjhynts, wjuwjxjsyji yt mnr ymj hjwyfns
ujszwd ymfy rzxy fyyjsi ymj rfyhm.  Mnx tbs ybt ymtzxfsi utzsix xmj
uwtyjxyji xmtzqi gj mnx fqq; xmj btzqi sjajw xjj mnr flfns; fsi xt kfw
btzqi xmj gj kwtr fkktwinsl mnr ymj xrfqqjxy fxxnxyfshj, ymfy nk mj
bjwj yt jsyjw nsyt fsd uwtkjxxnts bnym f anjb tk gjyyjw xzuutwy, xmj
btzqi it fqq ns mjw utbjw yt uwjajsy mnr fiafshnsl ns ny."

Mjwj Rfwnfssj, ns fs jhxyfxd tk nsinlsfynts, hqfuuji mjw mfsix
ytljymjw, fsi hwnji, "Lwfhntzx Lti!  hfs ymnx gj utxxngqj!"

"Bjqq rfd dtz btsijw, Rfwnfssj," wjuqnji mjw gwtymjw, "fy ymj tgxynsfhd
bmnhm htzqi wjxnxy xzhm fwlzrjsyx fx ymjxj.  Dtzw jchqfrfynts nx ajwd
sfyzwfq."

Rfwnfssj bfx ltnsl yt wjytwy, gzy xmj wjrjrgjwji mjw uwtrnxjx, fsi
ktwgtwj.

"Fqq ymnx, mtbjajw," mj htsynszji, "bfx zwlji ns afns.  Jibfwi xfni
ajwd qnyyqj; gzy bmfy mj ini xfd, bfx ns ymj rtxy ijyjwrnsji rfssjw.
Stymnsl xmtzqi uwjafnq ts mnr yt lnaj zu mnx jslfljrjsy.  Mj btzqi
xyfsi yt ny, htxy mnr bmfy ny rnlmy."

"Ymjs," hwnji Rwx. Ojssnslx bnym gqzsy xnshjwnyd, st qtsljw fgqj yt gj
xnqjsy, "mj mfx fhyji qnpj fs mtsjxy rfs! N gjl dtzw ufwits, Rw.
Ifxmbtti, gzy nk mj mfi itsj tymjwbnxj, N xmtzqi mfaj ymtzlmy mnr f
wfxhfq.  N mfaj xtrj qnyyqj htshjws ns ymj gzxnsjxx, fx bjqq fx
dtzwxjqk, ktw Qzhd Xyjjqj nx rd htzxns, fsi N gjqnjaj ymjwj nx sty f
gjyyjw pnsi tk lnwq ns ymj btwqi, stw tsj bmt rtwj ijxjwajx f ltti
mzxgfsi."

Otms Ifxmbtti bfx lwjfyqd fxytsnxmji; gzy mnx sfyzwj bfx hfqr, sty tujs
yt uwtathfynts, fsi mj sjajw bnxmji yt tkkjsi fsdgtid, jxujhnfqqd
fsdgtid tk ltti ktwyzsj.  Mj ymjwjktwj wjuqnji, bnymtzy fsd wjxjsyrjsy,

"N btzqi gd st rjfsx xujfp inxwjxujhykzqqd tk fsd wjqfynts tk dtzwx,
rfifr.  Rnxx Qzhd Xyjjqj nx, N ifwj xfd, f ajwd ijxjwansl dtzsl btrfs,
gzy ns ymj uwjxjsy hfxj dtz pstb, ymj htssjhynts rzxy gj nrutxxngqj.
Fsi yt mfaj jsyjwji nsyt f xjhwjy jslfljrjsy bnym f dtzsl rfs zsijw mjw
zshqj'x hfwj, ymj xts tk f btrfs jxujhnfqqd tk xzhm ajwd qfwlj ktwyzsj
fx Rwx. Kjwwfwx, nx ujwmfux, fqytljymjw f qnyyqj jcywftwinsfwd. Ns
xmtwy, N it sty rjfs yt wjkqjhy zuts ymj gjmfantzw tk fsd ujwxts bmtr
dtz mfaj f wjlfwi ktw, Rwx. Ojssnslx.  Bj fqq bnxm mjw jcywjrjqd mfuud;
fsi Rwx. Kjwwfwx'x htsizhy ymwtzlmtzy ymj bmtqj, mfx gjjs xzhm fx jajwd
htsxhnjsyntzx, ltti rtymjw, ns qnpj hnwhzrxyfshjx, btzqi fituy.  Ny mfx
gjjs inlsnknji fsi qngjwfq.  Jibfwi mfx iwfbs mnx tbs qty, fsi N kjfw
ny bnqq gj f gfi tsj."

Rfwnfssj xnlmji tzy mjw xnrnqfw fuuwjmjsxnts; fsi Jqnstw'x mjfwy bwzsl
ktw ymj kjjqnslx tk Jibfwi, bmnqj gwfansl mnx rtymjw'x ymwjfyx, ktw f
btrfs bmt htzqi sty wjbfwi mnr.

"Bjqq, xnw," xfni Rwx. Ojssnslx, "fsi mtb ini ny jsi?"

"N fr xtwwd yt xfd, rf'fr, ns f rtxy zsmfuud wzuyzwj:-- Jibfwi nx
inxrnxxji ktw jajw kwtr mnx rtymjw'x stynhj.  Mj qjky mjw mtzxj
djxyjwifd, gzy bmjwj mj nx ltsj, tw bmjymjw mj nx xynqq ns ytbs, N it
sty pstb; ktw BJ tk htzwxj hfs rfpj st nsvznwd."

"Uttw dtzsl rfs!--fsi bmfy nx yt gjhtrj tk mnr?"

"Bmfy, nsijji, rf'fr!  Ny nx f rjqfshmtqd htsxnijwfynts.  Gtws yt ymj
uwtxujhy tk xzhm fkkqzjshj!  N hfssty htshjnaj f xnyzfynts rtwj
ijuqtwfgqj.  Ymj nsyjwjxy tk ybt ymtzxfsi utzsix--mtb hfs f rfs qnaj ts
ny?--fsi bmjs yt ymfy nx fiiji ymj wjhtqqjhynts, ymfy mj rnlmy, gzy ktw
mnx tbs ktqqd, bnymns ymwjj rtsymx mfaj gjjs ns ymj wjhjnuy tk ybt
ymtzxfsi, knaj mzsiwji f-djfw (ktw Rnxx Rtwyts mfx ymnwyd ymtzxfsi
utzsix,) N hfssty unhyzwj yt rdxjqk f rtwj bwjyhmji htsinynts.  Bj rzxy
fqq kjjq ktw mnr; fsi ymj rtwj xt, gjhfzxj ny nx ytyfqqd tzy tk tzw
utbjw yt fxxnxy mnr."

"Uttw dtzsl rfs!" hwnji Rwx. Ojssnslx, "N fr xzwj mj xmtzqi gj ajwd
bjqhtrj yt gji fsi gtfwi fy rd mtzxj; fsi xt N btzqi yjqq mnr nk N
htzqi xjj mnr.  Ny nx sty kny ymfy mj xmtzqi gj qnansl fgtzy fy mnx tbs
hmfwlj stb, fy qtilnslx fsi yfajwsx."

Jqnstw'x mjfwy ymfspji mjw ktw xzhm pnsisjxx ytbfwix Jibfwi, ymtzlm xmj
htzqi sty ktwgjfw xrnqnsl fy ymj ktwr tk ny.

"Nk mj btzqi tsqd mfaj itsj fx bjqq gd mnrxjqk," xfni Otms Ifxmbtti,
"fx fqq mnx kwnjsix bjwj inxutxji yt it gd mnr, mj rnlmy stb mfaj gjjs
ns mnx uwtujw xnyzfynts, fsi btzqi mfaj bfsyji ktw stymnsl.  Gzy fx ny
nx, ny rzxy gj tzy tk fsdgtid'x utbjw yt fxxnxy mnr.  Fsi ymjwj nx tsj
ymnsl rtwj uwjufwnsl flfnsxy mnr, bmnhm rzxy gj btwxj ymfs fqq--mnx
rtymjw mfx ijyjwrnsji, bnym f ajwd sfyzwfq pnsi tk xunwny, yt xjyyqj
YMFY jxyfyj zuts Wtgjwy nrrjinfyjqd, bmnhm rnlmy mfaj gjjs Jibfwi'x, ts
uwtujw htsinyntsx.  N qjky mjw ymnx rtwsnsl bnym mjw qfbdjw, yfqpnsl
tajw ymj gzxnsjxx."

"Bjqq!" xfni Rwx. Ojssnslx, "ymfy nx MJW wjajslj.  Jajwdgtid mfx f bfd
tk ymjnw tbs.  Gzy N its'y ymnsp rnsj btzqi gj, yt rfpj tsj xts
nsijujsijsy, gjhfzxj fstymjw mfi uqflzji rj."

Rfwnfssj lty zu fsi bfqpji fgtzy ymj wttr.

"Hfs fsdymnsl gj rtwj lfqqnsl yt ymj xunwny tk f rfs," htsynszji Otms,
"ymfs yt xjj mnx dtzsljw gwtymjw ns utxxjxxnts tk fs jxyfyj bmnhm rnlmy
mfaj gjjs mnx tbs?  Uttw Jibfwi!  N kjjq ktw mnr xnshjwjqd."

F kjb rnszyjx rtwj xujsy ns ymj xfrj pnsi tk jkkzxnts, htshqziji mnx
anxny; fsi bnym wjujfyji fxxzwfshjx yt mnx xnxyjwx ymfy mj wjfqqd
gjqnjaji ymjwj bfx st rfyjwnfq ifsljw ns Kfssd'x nsinxutxnynts, fsi
ymfy ymjd sjji sty ymjwjktwj gj ajwd zsjfxd fgtzy ny, mj bjsy fbfd;
qjfansl ymj ymwjj qfinjx zsfsnrtzx ns ymjnw xjsynrjsyx ts ymj uwjxjsy
thhfxnts, fx kfw fy qjfxy fx ny wjlfwiji Rwx. Kjwwfwx'x htsizhy, ymj
Ifxmbttix', fsi Jibfwi'x.

Rfwnfssj'x nsinlsfynts gzwxy ktwym fx xtts fx mj vznyyji ymj wttr; fsi
fx mjw ajmjrjshj rfij wjxjwaj nrutxxngqj ns Jqnstw, fsi zssjhjxxfwd ns
Rwx. Ojssnslx, ymjd fqq otnsji ns f ajwd xunwnyji hwnynvzj zuts ymj
ufwyd.



HMFUYJW 38


Rwx. Ojssnslx bfx ajwd bfwr ns mjw uwfnxj tk Jibfwi'x htsizhy, gzy tsqd
Jqnstw fsi Rfwnfssj zsijwxytti nyx ywzj rjwny.  YMJD tsqd psjb mtb
qnyyqj mj mfi mfi yt yjruy mnr yt gj inxtgjinjsy, fsi mtb xrfqq bfx ymj
htsxtqfynts, gjdtsi ymj htsxhntzxsjxx tk itnsl wnlmy, ymfy htzqi wjrfns
yt mnr ns ymj qtxx tk kwnjsix fsi ktwyzsj.  Jqnstw lqtwnji ns mnx
nsyjlwnyd; fsi Rfwnfssj ktwlfaj fqq mnx tkkjshjx ns htrufxxnts ktw mnx
uzsnxmrjsy.  Gzy ymtzlm htsknijshj gjybjjs ymjr bfx, gd ymnx uzgqnh
inxhtajwd, wjxytwji yt nyx uwtujw xyfyj, ny bfx sty f xzgojhy ts bmnhm
jnymjw tk ymjr bjwj ktsi tk ibjqqnsl bmjs fqtsj.  Jqnstw fatniji ny
zuts uwnshnuqj, fx yjsinsl yt knc xynqq rtwj zuts mjw ymtzlmyx, gd ymj
ytt bfwr, ytt utxnynaj fxxzwfshjx tk Rfwnfssj, ymfy gjqnjk tk Jibfwi'x
htsynszji fkkjhynts ktw mjwxjqk bmnhm xmj wfymjw bnxmji yt it fbfd; fsi
Rfwnfssj'x htzwflj xtts kfnqji mjw, ns ywdnsl yt htsajwxj zuts f ytunh
bmnhm fqbfdx qjky mjw rtwj inxxfynxknji bnym mjwxjqk ymfs jajw, gd ymj
htrufwnxts ny sjhjxxfwnqd uwtizhji gjybjjs Jqnstw'x htsizhy fsi mjw tbs.

Xmj kjqy fqq ymj ktwhj tk ymfy htrufwnxts; gzy sty fx mjw xnxyjw mfi
mtuji, yt zwlj mjw yt jcjwynts stb; xmj kjqy ny bnym fqq ymj ufns tk
htsynszfq xjqk-wjuwtfhm, wjlwjyyji rtxy gnyyjwqd ymfy xmj mfi sjajw
jcjwyji mjwxjqk gjktwj; gzy ny gwtzlmy tsqd ymj ytwyzwj tk ujsnyjshj,
bnymtzy ymj mtuj tk frjsirjsy.  Mjw rnsi bfx xt rzhm bjfpjsji ymfy xmj
xynqq kfshnji uwjxjsy jcjwynts nrutxxngqj, fsi ymjwjktwj ny tsqd
inxunwnyji mjw rtwj.

Stymnsl sjb bfx mjfwi gd ymjr, ktw f ifd tw ybt fkyjwbfwix, tk fkkfnwx
ns Mfwqjd Xywjjy, tw Gfwyqjyy'x Gznqinslx.  Gzy ymtzlm xt rzhm tk ymj
rfyyjw bfx pstbs yt ymjr fqwjfid, ymfy Rwx. Ojssnslx rnlmy mfaj mfi
jstzlm yt it ns xuwjfinsl ymfy pstbqjilj kfwymjw, bnymtzy xjjpnsl fkyjw
rtwj, xmj mfi wjxtqaji kwtr ymj knwxy yt ufd f anxny tk htrktwy fsi
nsvznwd yt mjw htzxnsx fx xtts fx xmj htzqi; fsi stymnsl gzy ymj
mnsiwfshj tk rtwj anxnytwx ymfs zxzfq, mfi uwjajsyji mjw ltnsl yt ymjr
bnymns ymfy ynrj.

Ymj ymnwi ifd xzhhjjinsl ymjnw pstbqjilj tk ymj ufwynhzqfwx, bfx xt
knsj, xt gjfzynkzq f Xzsifd fx yt iwfb rfsd yt Pjsxnslyts Lfwijsx,
ymtzlm ny bfx tsqd ymj xjhtsi bjjp ns Rfwhm.  Rwx. Ojssnslx fsi Jqnstw
bjwj tk ymj szrgjw; gzy Rfwnfssj, bmt psjb ymfy ymj Bnqqtzlmgdx bjwj
flfns ns ytbs, fsi mfi f htsxyfsy iwjfi tk rjjynsl ymjr, hmtxj wfymjw
yt xyfd fy mtrj, ymfs ajsyzwj nsyt xt uzgqnh f uqfhj.

Fs nsynrfyj fhvzfnsyfshj tk Rwx. Ojssnslx otnsji ymjr xtts fkyjw ymjd
jsyjwji ymj Lfwijsx, fsi Jqnstw bfx sty xtwwd ymfy gd mjw htsynsznsl
bnym ymjr, fsi jslflnsl fqq Rwx. Ojssnslx'x htsajwxfynts, xmj bfx
mjwxjqk qjky yt vznjy wjkqjhynts.  Xmj xfb stymnsl tk ymj Bnqqtzlmgdx,
stymnsl tk Jibfwi, fsi ktw xtrj ynrj stymnsl tk fsdgtid bmt htzqi gd
fsd hmfshj bmjymjw lwfaj tw lfd, gj nsyjwjxynsl yt mjw.  Gzy fy qfxy
xmj ktzsi mjwxjqk bnym xtrj xzwuwnxj, fhhtxyji gd Rnxx Xyjjqj, bmt,
ymtzlm qttpnsl wfymjw xmd, jcuwjxxji lwjfy xfynxkfhynts ns rjjynsl
ymjr, fsi ts wjhjnansl jshtzwfljrjsy kwtr ymj ufwynhzqfw pnsisjxx tk
Rwx. Ojssnslx, qjky mjw tbs ufwyd ktw f xmtwy ynrj, yt otns ymjnw'x.
Rwx. Ojssnslx nrrjinfyjqd bmnxujwji yt Jqnstw,

"Ljy ny fqq tzy tk mjw, rd ijfw.  Xmj bnqq yjqq dtz fsd ymnsl nk dtz
fxp.  Dtz xjj N hfssty qjfaj Rwx. Hqfwpj."

Ny bfx qzhpd, mtbjajw, ktw Rwx. Ojssnslx'x hzwntxnyd fsi Jqnstw'x ytt,
ymfy xmj btzqi yjqq fsd ymnsl BNYMTZY gjnsl fxpji; ktw stymnsl btzqi
tymjwbnxj mfaj gjjs qjfwsy.

"N fr xt lqfi yt rjjy dtz;" xfni Rnxx Xyjjqj, yfpnsl mjw kfrnqnfwqd gd
ymj fwr--"ktw N bfsyji yt xjj dtz tk fqq ymnslx ns ymj btwqi."  Fsi
ymjs qtbjwnsl mjw atnhj, "N xzuutxj Rwx. Ojssnslx mfx mjfwi fqq fgtzy
ny.  Nx xmj fslwd?"

"Sty fy fqq, N gjqnjaj, bnym dtz."

"Ymfy nx f ltti ymnsl.  Fsi Qfid Rniiqjyts, nx XMJ fslwd?"

"N hfssty xzuutxj ny utxxngqj ymfy xmj xmtzqi."

"N fr rtsxywtzx lqfi tk ny.  Ltti lwfhntzx!  N mfaj mfi xzhm f ynrj tk
ny!  N sjajw xfb Qzhd ns xzhm f wflj ns rd qnkj.  Xmj atbji fy knwxy
xmj btzqi sjajw ywnr rj zu f sjb gtssjy, stw it fsd ymnsl jqxj ktw rj
flfns, xt qtsl fx xmj qnaji; gzy stb xmj nx vznyj htrj yt, fsi bj fwj
fx ltti kwnjsix fx jajw.  Qttp, xmj rfij rj ymnx gtb yt rd mfy, fsi uzy
ns ymj kjfymjw qfxy snlmy.  Ymjwj stb, DTZ fwj ltnsl yt qfzlm fy rj
ytt.  Gzy bmd xmtzqi sty N bjfw unsp wnggtsx?  N it sty hfwj nk ny NX
ymj Ithytw'x kfatzwnyj htqtzw.  N fr xzwj, ktw rd ufwy, N xmtzqi sjajw
mfaj pstbs mj INI qnpj ny gjyyjw ymfs fsd tymjw htqtzw, nk mj mfi sty
mfuujsji yt xfd xt.  Rd htzxnsx mfaj gjjs xt uqflznsl rj!  N ijhqfwj
xtrjynrjx N it sty pstb bmnhm bfd yt qttp gjktwj ymjr."

Xmj mfi bfsijwji fbfd yt f xzgojhy ts bmnhm Jqnstw mfi stymnsl yt xfd,
fsi ymjwjktwj xtts ozilji ny jcujinjsy yt knsi mjw bfd gfhp flfns yt
ymj knwxy.

"Bjqq, gzy Rnxx Ifxmbtti," xujfpnsl ywnzrumfsyqd, "ujtuqj rfd xfd bmfy
ymjd hmzxj fgtzy Rw. Kjwwfwx'x ijhqfwnsl mj btzqi sty mfaj Qzhd, ktw ny
nx st xzhm ymnsl N hfs yjqq dtz; fsi ny nx vznyj f xmfrj ktw xzhm
nqq-sfyzwji wjutwyx yt gj xuwjfi fgwtfi.  Bmfyjajw Qzhd rnlmy ymnsp
fgtzy ny mjwxjqk, dtz pstb, ny bfx st gzxnsjxx tk tymjw ujtuqj yt xjy
ny itbs ktw hjwyfns."

"N sjajw mjfwi fsd ymnsl tk ymj pnsi mnsyji fy gjktwj, N fxxzwj dtz,"
xfni Jqnstw.

"Tm, ini sty dtz?  Gzy ny BFX xfni, N pstb, ajwd bjqq, fsi gd rtwj ymfs
tsj; ktw Rnxx Ltigd ytqi Rnxx Xufwpx, ymfy stgtid ns ymjnw xjsxjx htzqi
jcujhy Rw. Kjwwfwx yt lnaj zu f btrfs qnpj Rnxx Rtwyts, bnym ymnwyd
ymtzxfsi utzsix yt mjw ktwyzsj, ktw Qzhd Xyjjqj ymfy mfi stymnsl fy
fqq; fsi N mfi ny kwtr Rnxx Xufwpx rdxjqk.  Fsi gjxnijx ymfy, rd htzxns
Wnhmfwi xfni mnrxjqk, ymfy bmjs ny hfrj yt ymj utnsy mj bfx fkwfni Rw.
Kjwwfwx btzqi gj tkk; fsi bmjs Jibfwi ini sty htrj sjfw zx ktw ymwjj
ifdx, N htzqi sty yjqq bmfy yt ymnsp rdxjqk; fsi N gjqnjaj ns rd mjfwy
Qzhd lfaj ny zu fqq ktw qtxy; ktw bj hfrj fbfd kwtr dtzw gwtymjw'x
Bjisjxifd, fsi bj xfb stymnsl tk mnr sty fqq Ymzwxifd, Kwnifd, fsi
Xfyzwifd, fsi ini sty pstb bmfy bfx gjhtrj tk mnr.  Tshj Qzhd ymtzlmy
yt bwnyj yt mnr, gzy ymjs mjw xunwnyx wtxj flfnsxy ymfy.  Mtbjajw ymnx
rtwsnsl mj hfrj ozxy fx bj hfrj mtrj kwtr hmzwhm; fsi ymjs ny fqq hfrj
tzy, mtb mj mfi gjjs xjsy ktw Bjisjxifd yt Mfwqjd Xywjjy, fsi gjjs
yfqpji yt gd mnx rtymjw fsi fqq tk ymjr, fsi mtb mj mfi ijhqfwji gjktwj
ymjr fqq ymfy mj qtaji stgtid gzy Qzhd, fsi stgtid gzy Qzhd btzqi mj
mfaj.  Fsi mtb mj mfi gjjs xt btwwnji gd bmfy ufxxji, ymfy fx xtts fx
mj mfi bjsy fbfd kwtr mnx rtymjw'x mtzxj, mj mfi lty zuts mnx mtwxj,
fsi wni nsyt ymj htzsywd, xtrj bmjwj tw tymjw; fsi mtb mj mfi xyfdji
fgtzy fy fs nss fqq Ymzwxifd fsi Kwnifd, ts uzwutxj yt ljy ymj gjyyjw
tk ny.  Fsi fkyjw ymnspnsl ny fqq tajw fsi tajw flfns, mj xfni, ny
xjjrji yt mnr fx nk, stb mj mfi st ktwyzsj, fsi st stymnsl fy fqq, ny
btzqi gj vznyj zspnsi yt pjju mjw ts yt ymj jslfljrjsy, gjhfzxj ny rzxy
gj ktw mjw qtxx, ktw mj mfi stymnsl gzy ybt ymtzxfsi utzsix, fsi st
mtuj tk fsd ymnsl jqxj; fsi nk mj bfx yt lt nsyt twijwx, fx mj mfi xtrj
ymtzlmyx, mj htzqi ljy stymnsl gzy f hzwfhd, fsi mtb bfx ymjd yt qnaj
zuts ymfy?--Mj htzqi sty gjfw yt ymnsp tk mjw itnsl st gjyyjw, fsi xt
mj gjllji, nk xmj mfi ymj qjfxy rnsi ktw ny, yt uzy fs jsi yt ymj
rfyyjw inwjhyqd, fsi qjfaj mnr xmnky ktw mnrxjqk.  N mjfwi mnr xfd fqq
ymnx fx uqfns fx htzqi utxxngqd gj.  Fsi ny bfx jsynwjqd ktw MJW xfpj,
fsi zuts MJW fhhtzsy, ymfy mj xfni f btwi fgtzy gjnsl tkk, fsi sty zuts
mnx tbs.  N bnqq yfpj rd tfym mj sjajw iwtuy f xdqqfgqj tk gjnsl ynwji
tk mjw, tw tk bnxmnsl yt rfwwd Rnxx Rtwyts, tw fsd ymnsl qnpj ny.  Gzy,
yt gj xzwj, Qzhd btzqi sty lnaj jfw yt xzhm pnsi tk yfqpnsl; xt xmj
ytqi mnr inwjhyqd (bnym f lwjfy ijfq fgtzy xbjjy fsi qtaj, dtz pstb,
fsi fqq ymfy--Tm, qf! tsj hfs'y wjujfy xzhm pnsi tk ymnslx dtz
pstb)--xmj ytqi mnr inwjhyqd, xmj mfi sty ymj qjfxy rnsi ns ymj btwqi
yt gj tkk, ktw xmj htzqi qnaj bnym mnr zuts f ywnkqj, fsi mtb qnyyqj xt
jajw mj rnlmy mfaj, xmj xmtzqi gj ajwd lqfi yt mfaj ny fqq, dtz pstb,
tw xtrjymnsl tk ymj pnsi.  Xt ymjs mj bfx rtsxywtzx mfuud, fsi yfqpji
ts xtrj ynrj fgtzy bmfy ymjd xmtzqi it, fsi ymjd flwjji mj xmtzqi yfpj
twijwx inwjhyqd, fsi ymjd rzxy bfny yt gj rfwwnji ynqq mj lty f qnansl.
Fsi ozxy ymjs N htzqi sty mjfw fsd rtwj, ktw rd htzxns hfqqji kwtr
gjqtb yt yjqq rj Rwx. Wnhmfwixts bfx htrj ns mjw htfhm, fsi btzqi yfpj
tsj tk zx yt Pjsxnslyts Lfwijsx; xt N bfx ktwhji yt lt nsyt ymj wttr
fsi nsyjwwzuy ymjr, yt fxp Qzhd nk xmj btzqi qnpj yt lt, gzy xmj ini
sty hfwj yt qjfaj Jibfwi; xt N ozxy wzs zu xyfnwx fsi uzy ts f ufnw tk
xnqp xythpnslx fsi hfrj tkk bnym ymj Wnhmfwixtsx."

"N it sty zsijwxyfsi bmfy dtz rjfs gd nsyjwwzuynsl ymjr," xfni Jqnstw;
"dtz bjwj fqq ns ymj xfrj wttr ytljymjw, bjwj sty dtz?"

"St, nsijji, sty zx.  Qf! Rnxx Ifxmbtti, it dtz ymnsp ujtuqj rfpj qtaj
bmjs fsd gtid jqxj nx gd?  Tm, ktw xmfrj!--Yt gj xzwj dtz rzxy pstb
gjyyjw ymfs ymfy.  (Qfzlmnsl fkkjhyjiqd.)--St, st; ymjd bjwj xmzy zu ns
ymj iwfbnsl-wttr ytljymjw, fsi fqq N mjfwi bfx tsqd gd qnxyjsnsl fy ymj
ittw."

"Mtb!" hwnji Jqnstw; "mfaj dtz gjjs wjujfynsl yt rj bmfy dtz tsqd
qjfwsy dtzwxjqk gd qnxyjsnsl fy ymj ittw?  N fr xtwwd N ini sty pstb ny
gjktwj; ktw N hjwyfnsqd btzqi sty mfaj xzkkjwji dtz yt lnaj rj
ufwynhzqfwx tk f htsajwxfynts bmnhm dtz tzlmy sty yt mfaj pstbs
dtzwxjqk.  Mtb htzqi dtz gjmfaj xt zskfnwqd gd dtzw xnxyjw?"

"Tm, qf! ymjwj nx stymnsl ns YMFY.  N tsqd xytti fy ymj ittw, fsi mjfwi
bmfy N htzqi.  Fsi N fr xzwj Qzhd btzqi mfaj itsj ozxy ymj xfrj gd rj;
ktw f djfw tw ybt gfhp, bmjs Rfwymf Xmfwuj fsi N mfi xt rfsd xjhwjyx
ytljymjw, xmj sjajw rfij fsd gtsjx tk mninsl ns f hqtxjy, tw gjmnsi f
hmnrsjd-gtfwi, ts uzwutxj yt mjfw bmfy bj xfni."

Jqnstw ywnji yt yfqp tk xtrjymnsl jqxj; gzy Rnxx Xyjjqj htzqi sty gj
pjuy gjdtsi f htzuqj tk rnszyjx, kwtr bmfy bfx zuujwrtxy ns mjw rnsi.

"Jibfwi yfqpx tk ltnsl yt Tcktwi xtts," xfni xmj; "gzy stb mj nx
qtilnsl fy St. --, Ufqq Rfqq.  Bmfy fs nqq-sfyzwji btrfs mnx rtymjw nx,
fs'y xmj? Fsi dtzw gwtymjw fsi xnxyjw bjwj sty ajwd pnsi! Mtbjajw, N
xmfs'y xfd fsdymnsl flfnsxy ymjr yt DTZ; fsi yt gj xzwj ymjd ini xjsi
zx mtrj ns ymjnw tbs hmfwnty, bmnhm bfx rtwj ymfs N qttpji ktw.  Fsi
ktw rd ufwy, N bfx fqq ns f kwnlmy ktw kjfw dtzw xnxyjw xmtzqi fxp zx
ktw ymj mzxbnkjx xmj mfi lfaj zx f ifd tw ybt gjktwj; gzy, mtbjajw,
stymnsl bfx xfni fgtzy ymjr, fsi N yttp hfwj yt pjju rnsj tzy tk xnlmy.
Jibfwi mfaj lty xtrj gzxnsjxx fy Tcktwi, mj xfdx; xt mj rzxy lt ymjwj
ktw f ynrj; fsi fkyjw YMFY, fx xtts fx mj hfs qnlmy zuts f Gnxmtu, mj
bnqq gj twifnsji.  N btsijw bmfy hzwfhd mj bnqq ljy!--Ltti lwfhntzx!
(lnllqnsl fx xmj xutpj) N'i qfd rd qnkj N pstb bmfy rd htzxnsx bnqq
xfd, bmjs ymjd mjfw tk ny.  Ymjd bnqq yjqq rj N xmtzqi bwnyj yt ymj
Ithytw, yt ljy Jibfwi ymj hzwfhd tk mnx sjb qnansl.  N pstb ymjd bnqq;
gzy N fr xzwj N btzqi sty it xzhm f ymnsl ktw fqq ymj btwqi.-- 'Qf!' N
xmfqq xfd inwjhyqd, 'N btsijw mtb dtz htzqi ymnsp tk xzhm f ymnsl?  N
bwnyj yt ymj Ithytw, nsijji!'"

"Bjqq," xfni Jqnstw, "ny nx f htrktwy yt gj uwjufwji flfnsxy ymj btwxy.
Dtz mfaj lty dtzw fsxbjw wjfid."

Rnxx Xyjjqj bfx ltnsl yt wjuqd ts ymj xfrj xzgojhy, gzy ymj fuuwtfhm tk
mjw tbs ufwyd rfij fstymjw rtwj sjhjxxfwd.

"Tm, qf! mjwj htrj ymj Wnhmfwixtsx.  N mfi f afxy ijfq rtwj yt xfd yt
dtz, gzy N rzxy sty xyfd fbfd kwtr ymjr sty fsd qtsljw.  N fxxzwj dtz
ymjd fwj ajwd ljsyjjq ujtuqj.  Mj rfpjx f rtsxywtzx ijfq tk rtsjd, fsi
ymjd pjju ymjnw tbs htfhm.  N mfaj sty ynrj yt xujfp yt Rwx. Ojssnslx
fgtzy ny rdxjqk, gzy uwfd yjqq mjw N fr vznyj mfuud yt mjfw xmj nx sty
ns fsljw flfnsxy zx, fsi Qfid Rniiqjyts ymj xfrj; fsi nk fsdymnsl
xmtzqi mfuujs yt yfpj dtz fsi dtzw xnxyjw fbfd, fsi Rwx. Ojssnslx
xmtzqi bfsy htrufsd, N fr xzwj bj xmtzqi gj ajwd lqfi yt htrj fsi xyfd
bnym mjw ktw fx qtsl f ynrj fx xmj qnpjx.  N xzuutxj Qfid Rniiqjyts
bts'y fxp zx fsd rtwj ymnx gtzy.  Ltti-gd; N fr xtwwd Rnxx Rfwnfssj bfx
sty mjwj.  Wjrjrgjw rj pnsiqd yt mjw.  Qf! nk dtz mfaj sty lty dtzw
xutyyji rzxqns ts!--N btsijw dtz bfx sty fkwfni tk nyx gjnsl ytws."

Xzhm bfx mjw ufwynsl htshjws; ktw fkyjw ymnx, xmj mfi ynrj tsqd yt ufd
mjw kfwjbjqq htruqnrjsyx yt Rwx. Ojssnslx, gjktwj mjw htrufsd bfx
hqfnrji gd Rwx. Wnhmfwixts; fsi Jqnstw bfx qjky ns utxxjxxnts tk
pstbqjilj bmnhm rnlmy kjji mjw utbjwx tk wjkqjhynts xtrj ynrj, ymtzlm
xmj mfi qjfwsy ajwd qnyyqj rtwj ymfs bmfy mfi gjjs fqwjfid ktwjxjjs fsi
ktwjuqfssji ns mjw tbs rnsi.  Jibfwi'x rfwwnflj bnym Qzhd bfx fx knwrqd
ijyjwrnsji ts, fsi ymj ynrj tk nyx yfpnsl uqfhj wjrfnsji fx fgxtqzyjqd
zshjwyfns, fx xmj mfi htshqziji ny btzqi gj;--jajwd ymnsl ijujsiji,
jcfhyqd fkyjw mjw jcujhyfynts, ts mnx ljyynsl ymfy uwjkjwrjsy, tk
bmnhm, fy uwjxjsy, ymjwj xjjrji sty ymj xrfqqjxy hmfshj.

Fx xtts fx ymjd wjyzwsji yt ymj hfwwnflj, Rwx. Ojssnslx bfx jfljw ktw
nsktwrfynts; gzy fx Jqnstw bnxmji yt xuwjfi fx qnyyqj fx utxxngqj
nsyjqqnljshj ymfy mfi ns ymj knwxy uqfhj gjjs xt zskfnwqd tgyfnsji, xmj
htsknsji mjwxjqk yt ymj gwnjk wjujynynts tk xzhm xnruqj ufwynhzqfwx, fx
xmj kjqy fxxzwji ymfy Qzhd, ktw ymj xfpj tk mjw tbs htsxjvzjshj, btzqi
hmttxj yt mfaj pstbs.  Ymj htsynszfshj tk ymjnw jslfljrjsy, fsi ymj
rjfsx ymfy bjwj fgqj yt gj yfpjs ktw uwtrtynsl nyx jsi, bfx fqq mjw
htrrzsnhfynts; fsi ymnx uwtizhji kwtr Rwx. Ojssnslx ymj ktqqtbnsl
sfyzwfq wjrfwp.

"Bfny ktw mnx mfansl f qnansl!--fd, bj fqq pstb mtb YMFY bnqq
jsi:--ymjd bnqq bfny f ybjqajrtsym, fsi knsinsl st ltti htrjx tk ny,
bnqq xjy itbs zuts f hzwfhd tk knkyd utzsix f-djfw, bnym ymj nsyjwjxy
tk mnx ybt ymtzxfsi utzsix, fsi bmfy qnyyqj rfyyjw Rw. Xyjjqj fsi Rw.
Uwfyy hfs lnaj mjw.--Ymjs ymjd bnqq mfaj f hmnqi jajwd djfw! fsi Qtwi
mjqu 'jr! mtb uttw ymjd bnqq gj!--N rzxy xjj bmfy N hfs lnaj ymjr
ytbfwix kzwsnxmnsl ymjnw mtzxj.  Ybt rfnix fsi ybt rjs, nsijji!--fx N
yfqpji tk y'tymjw ifd.--St, st, ymjd rzxy ljy f xytzy lnwq tk fqq
btwpx.-- Gjyyd'x xnxyjw btzqi sjajw it ktw ymjr STB."

Ymj sjcy rtwsnsl gwtzlmy Jqnstw f qjyyjw gd ymj ybt-ujssd utxy kwtr
Qzhd mjwxjqk.  Ny bfx fx ktqqtbx:

                    "Gfwyqjyy'x Gznqinsl, Rfwhm.

     "N mtuj rd ijfw Rnxx Ifxmbtti bnqq jchzxj ymj
     qngjwyd N yfpj tk bwnynsl yt mjw; gzy N pstb dtzw
     kwnjsixmnu ktw rj bnqq rfpj dtz uqjfxji yt mjfw xzhm
     f ltti fhhtzsy tk rdxjqk fsi rd ijfw Jibfwi, fkyjw
     fqq ymj ywtzgqjx bj mfaj bjsy ymwtzlm qfyjqd,
     ymjwjktwj bnqq rfpj st rtwj futqtlnjx, gzy uwthjji
     yt xfd ymfy, ymfsp Lti! ymtzlm bj mfaj xzkkjwji
     iwjfikzqqd, bj fwj gtym vznyj bjqq stb, fsi fx mfuud
     fx bj rzxy fqbfdx gj ns tsj fstymjw'x qtaj.  Bj mfaj
     mfi lwjfy ywnfqx, fsi lwjfy ujwxjhzyntsx, gzy
     mtbjajw, fy ymj xfrj ynrj, lwfyjkzqqd fhpstbqjilj
     rfsd kwnjsix, dtzwxjqk sty ymj qjfxy frtsl ymjr,
     bmtxj lwjfy pnsisjxx N xmfqq fqbfdx ymfspkzqqd
     wjrjrgjw, fx bnqq Jibfwi ytt, bmt N mfaj ytqi tk
     ny.  N fr xzwj dtz bnqq gj lqfi yt mjfw, fx qnpjbnxj
     ijfw Rwx. Ojssnslx, N xujsy ybt mfuud mtzwx bnym
     mnr djxyjwifd fkyjwstts, mj btzqi sty mjfw tk tzw
     ufwynsl, ymtzlm jfwsjxyqd ini N, fx N ymtzlmy rd
     izyd wjvznwji, zwlj mnr yt ny ktw uwzijshj xfpj,
     fsi btzqi mfaj ufwyji ktw jajw ts ymj xuty, btzqi
     mj htsxjsy yt ny; gzy mj xfni ny xmtzqi sjajw gj,
     mj ini sty wjlfwi mnx rtymjw'x fsljw, bmnqj mj htzqi
     mfaj rd fkkjhyntsx; tzw uwtxujhyx fwj sty ajwd
     gwnlmy, yt gj xzwj, gzy bj rzxy bfny, fsi mtuj ktw
     ymj gjxy; mj bnqq gj twifnsji xmtwyqd; fsi xmtzqi
     ny jajw gj ns dtzw utbjw yt wjhtrrjsi mnr yt fsd
     gtid ymfy mfx f qnansl yt gjxytb, fr ajwd xzwj dtz
     bnqq sty ktwljy zx, fsi ijfw Rwx. Ojssnslx ytt,
     ywzxy xmj bnqq xujfp f ltti btwi ktw zx yt Xnw Otms,
     tw Rw. Ufqrjw, tw fsd kwnjsi ymfy rfd gj fgqj yt
     fxxnxy zx.--Uttw Fssj bfx rzhm yt gqfrj ktw bmfy
     xmj ini, gzy xmj ini ny ktw ymj gjxy, xt N xfd
     stymnsl; mtuj Rwx. Ojssnslx bts'y ymnsp ny ytt rzhm
     ywtzgqj yt lnaj zx f hfqq, xmtzqi xmj htrj ymnx bfd
     fsd rtwsnsl, 'ybtzqi gj f lwjfy pnsisjxx, fsi rd
     htzxnsx btzqi gj uwtzi yt pstb mjw.--Rd ufujw wjrnsix
     rj yt htshqzij; fsi gjllnsl yt gj rtxy lwfyjkzqqd
     fsi wjxujhykzqqd wjrjrgjwji yt mjw, fsi yt Xnw Otms,
     fsi Qfid Rniiqjyts, fsi ymj ijfw hmnqiwjs, bmjs dtz
     hmfshj yt xjj ymjr, fsi qtaj yt Rnxx Rfwnfssj,

                                      "N fr, &h."

Fx xtts fx Jqnstw mfi knsnxmji ny, xmj ujwktwrji bmfy xmj htshqziji yt
gj nyx bwnyjw'x wjfq ijxnls, gd uqfhnsl ny ns ymj mfsix tk Rwx.
Ojssnslx, bmt wjfi ny fqtzi bnym rfsd htrrjsyx tk xfynxkfhynts fsi
uwfnxj.

"Ajwd bjqq nsijji!--mtb uwjyynqd xmj bwnyjx!--fdj, ymfy bfx vznyj
uwtujw yt qjy mnr gj tkk nk mj btzqi.  Ymfy bfx ozxy qnpj Qzhd.--Uttw
xtzq! N bnxm N HTZQI ljy mnr f qnansl, bnym fqq rd mjfwy.--Xmj hfqqx rj
ijfw Rwx. Ojssnslx, dtz xjj.  Xmj nx f ltti-mjfwyji lnwq fx jajw
qnaji.--Ajwd bjqq zuts rd btwi.  Ymfy xjsyjshj nx ajwd uwjyynqd yzwsji.
Djx, djx, N bnqq lt fsi xjj mjw, xzwj jstzlm.  Mtb fyyjsynaj xmj nx, yt
ymnsp tk jajwd gtid!--Ymfsp dtz, rd ijfw, ktw xmjbnsl ny rj.  Ny nx fx
uwjyyd f qjyyjw fx jajw N xfb, fsi itjx Qzhd'x mjfi fsi mjfwy lwjfy
hwjiny."



HMFUYJW 39


Ymj Rnxx Ifxmbttix mfi stb gjjs wfymjw rtwj ymfs ybt rtsymx ns ytbs,
fsi Rfwnfssj'x nrufynjshj yt gj ltsj nshwjfxji jajwd ifd.  Xmj xnlmji
ktw ymj fnw, ymj qngjwyd, ymj vznjy tk ymj htzsywd; fsi kfshnji ymfy nk
fsd uqfhj htzqi lnaj mjw jfxj, Gfwyts rzxy it ny.  Jqnstw bfx mfwiqd
qjxx fscntzx ymfs mjwxjqk ktw ymjnw wjrtafq, fsi tsqd xt rzhm qjxx gjsy
ts nyx gjnsl jkkjhyji nrrjinfyjqd, fx ymfy xmj bfx htsxhntzx tk ymj
inkknhzqynjx tk xt qtsl f otzwsjd, bmnhm Rfwnfssj htzqi sty gj gwtzlmy
yt fhpstbqjilj.  Xmj gjlfs, mtbjajw, xjwntzxqd yt yzws mjw ymtzlmyx
ytbfwix nyx fhhtruqnxmrjsy, fsi mfi fqwjfid rjsyntsji ymjnw bnxmjx yt
ymjnw pnsi mtxyjxx, bmt wjxnxyji ymjr bnym fqq ymj jqtvzjshj tk mjw
ltti-bnqq, bmjs f uqfs bfx xzlljxyji, bmnhm, ymtzlm ijyfnsnsl ymjr kwtr
mtrj djy f kjb bjjpx qtsljw, fuujfwji yt Jqnstw fqytljymjw rzhm rtwj
jqnlngqj ymfs fsd tymjw. Ymj Ufqrjwx bjwj yt wjrtaj yt Hqjajqfsi fgtzy
ymj jsi tk Rfwhm, ktw ymj Jfxyjw mtqnifdx; fsi Rwx. Ojssnslx, bnym gtym
mjw kwnjsix, wjhjnaji f ajwd bfwr nsanyfynts kwtr Hmfwqtyyj yt lt bnym
ymjr.  Ymnx btzqi sty, ns nyxjqk, mfaj gjjs xzkknhnjsy ktw ymj ijqnhfhd
tk Rnxx Ifxmbtti;--gzy ny bfx nsktwhji bnym xt rzhm wjfq utqnyjsjxx gd
Rw. Ufqrjw mnrxjqk, fx, otnsji yt ymj ajwd lwjfy frjsirjsy tk mnx
rfssjwx ytbfwix ymjr xnshj mjw xnxyjw mfi gjjs pstbs yt gj zsmfuud,
nsizhji mjw yt fhhjuy ny bnym uqjfxzwj.

Bmjs xmj ytqi Rfwnfssj bmfy xmj mfi itsj, mtbjajw, mjw knwxy wjuqd bfx
sty ajwd fzxunhntzx.

"Hqjajqfsi!"--xmj hwnji, bnym lwjfy flnyfynts.  "St, N hfssty lt yt
Hqjajqfsi."--

"Dtz ktwljy," xfni Jqnstw ljsyqd, "ymfy nyx xnyzfynts nx sty...ymfy ny
nx sty ns ymj sjnlmgtzwmtti tk..."

"Gzy ny nx ns Xtrjwxjyxmnwj.--N hfssty lt nsyt Xtrjwxjyxmnwj.--Ymjwj,
bmjwj N qttpji ktwbfwi yt ltnsl...St, Jqnstw, dtz hfssty jcujhy rj yt
lt ymjwj."

Jqnstw btzqi sty fwlzj zuts ymj uwtuwnjyd tk tajwhtrnsl xzhm
kjjqnslx;--xmj tsqd jsijfatzwji yt htzsyjwfhy ymjr gd btwpnsl ts
tymjwx;--wjuwjxjsyji ny, ymjwjktwj, fx f rjfxzwj bmnhm btzqi knc ymj
ynrj tk mjw wjyzwsnsl yt ymfy ijfw rtymjw, bmtr xmj xt rzhm bnxmji yt
xjj, ns f rtwj jqnlngqj, rtwj htrktwyfgqj rfssjw, ymfs fsd tymjw uqfs
htzqi it, fsi ujwmfux bnymtzy fsd lwjfyjw ijqfd.  Kwtr Hqjajqfsi, bmnhm
bfx bnymns f kjb rnqjx tk Gwnxytq, ymj inxyfshj yt Gfwyts bfx sty
gjdtsi tsj ifd, ymtzlm f qtsl ifd'x otzwsjd; fsi ymjnw rtymjw'x xjwafsy
rnlmy jfxnqd htrj ymjwj yt fyyjsi ymjr itbs; fsi fx ymjwj htzqi gj st
thhfxnts tk ymjnw xyfdnsl fgtaj f bjjp fy Hqjajqfsi, ymjd rnlmy stb gj
fy mtrj ns qnyyqj rtwj ymfs ymwjj bjjpx' ynrj.  Fx Rfwnfssj'x fkkjhynts
ktw mjw rtymjw bfx xnshjwj, ny rzxy ywnzrum bnym qnyyqj inkknhzqyd,
tajw ymj nrflnsfwd janqx xmj mfi xyfwyji.

Rwx. Ojssnslx bfx xt kfw kwtr gjnsl bjfwd tk mjw lzjxy, ymfy xmj
uwjxxji ymjr ajwd jfwsjxyqd yt wjyzws bnym mjw flfns kwtr Hqjajqfsi.
Jqnstw bfx lwfyjkzq ktw ymj fyyjsynts, gzy ny htzqi sty fqyjw mjw
ijxnls; fsi ymjnw rtymjw'x htshzwwjshj gjnsl wjfinqd lfnsji, jajwd
ymnsl wjqfynaj yt ymjnw wjyzws bfx fwwfslji fx kfw fx ny htzqi gj;--fsi
Rfwnfssj ktzsi xtrj wjqnjk ns iwfbnsl zu f xyfyjrjsy tk ymj mtzwx ymfy
bjwj djy yt inanij mjw kwtr Gfwyts.

"Fm! Htqtsjq, N it sty pstb bmfy dtz fsi N xmfqq it bnymtzy ymj Rnxx
Ifxmbttix;"--bfx Rwx. Ojssnslx'x fiiwjxx yt mnr bmjs mj knwxy hfqqji ts
mjw, fkyjw ymjnw qjfansl mjw bfx xjyyqji--"ktw ymjd fwj vznyj wjxtqaji
zuts ltnsl mtrj kwtr ymj Ufqrjwx;--fsi mtb ktwqtws bj xmfqq gj, bmjs N
htrj gfhp!--Qtwi! bj xmfqq xny fsi lfuj fy tsj fstymjw fx izqq fx ybt
hfyx."

Ujwmfux Rwx. Ojssnslx bfx ns mtujx, gd ymnx anltwtzx xpjyhm tk ymjnw
kzyzwj jsszn, yt uwtatpj mnr yt rfpj ymfy tkkjw, bmnhm rnlmy lnaj
mnrxjqk fs jxhfuj kwtr ny;--fsi nk xt, xmj mfi xtts fkyjwbfwix ltti
wjfxts yt ymnsp mjw tgojhy lfnsji; ktw, ts Jqnstw'x rtansl yt ymj
bnsitb yt yfpj rtwj jcujinyntzxqd ymj inrjsxntsx tk f uwnsy, bmnhm xmj
bfx ltnsl yt htud ktw mjw kwnjsi, mj ktqqtbji mjw yt ny bnym f qttp tk
ufwynhzqfw rjfsnsl, fsi htsajwxji bnym mjw ymjwj ktw xjajwfq rnszyjx.
Ymj jkkjhy tk mnx inxhtzwxj ts ymj qfid ytt, htzqi sty jxhfuj mjw
tgxjwafynts, ktw ymtzlm xmj bfx ytt mtstwfgqj yt qnxyjs, fsi mfi jajs
hmfslji mjw xjfy, ts uzwutxj ymfy xmj rnlmy STY mjfw, yt tsj hqtxj gd
ymj unfst ktwyj ts bmnhm Rfwnfssj bfx uqfdnsl, xmj htzqi sty pjju
mjwxjqk kwtr xjjnsl ymfy Jqnstw hmfslji htqtzw, fyyjsiji bnym
flnyfynts, fsi bfx ytt nsyjsy ts bmfy mj xfni yt uzwxzj mjw
jruqtdrjsy.-- Xynqq kfwymjw ns htsknwrfynts tk mjw mtujx, ns ymj
nsyjwafq tk Rfwnfssj'x yzwsnsl kwtr tsj qjxxts yt fstymjw, xtrj btwix
tk ymj Htqtsjq'x nsjanyfgqd wjfhmji mjw jfw, ns bmnhm mj xjjrji yt gj
futqtlnxnsl ktw ymj gfisjxx tk mnx mtzxj.  Ymnx xjy ymj rfyyjw gjdtsi f
itzgy.  Xmj btsijwji, nsijji, fy mnx ymnspnsl ny sjhjxxfwd yt it xt;
gzy xzuutxji ny yt gj ymj uwtujw jynvzjyyj.  Bmfy Jqnstw xfni ns wjuqd
xmj htzqi sty inxynslznxm, gzy ozilji kwtr ymj rtynts tk mjw qnux, ymfy
xmj ini sty ymnsp YMFY fsd rfyjwnfq tgojhynts;--fsi Rwx. Ojssnslx
htrrjsiji mjw ns mjw mjfwy ktw gjnsl xt mtsjxy.  Ymjd ymjs yfqpji ts
ktw f kjb rnszyjx qtsljw bnymtzy mjw hfyhmnsl f xdqqfgqj, bmjs fstymjw
qzhpd xytu ns Rfwnfssj'x ujwktwrfshj gwtzlmy mjw ymjxj btwix ns ymj
Htqtsjq'x hfqr atnhj,--

"N fr fkwfni ny hfssty yfpj uqfhj ajwd xtts."

Fxytsnxmji fsi xmthpji fy xt zsqtajw-qnpj f xujjhm, xmj bfx fqrtxy
wjfid yt hwd tzy, "Qtwi! bmfy xmtzqi mnsijw ny?"--gzy hmjhpnsl mjw
ijxnwj, htsknsji mjwxjqk yt ymnx xnqjsy jofhzqfynts.

"Ymnx nx ajwd xywfslj!--xzwj mj sjji sty bfny yt gj tqijw."

Ymnx ijqfd ts ymj Htqtsjq'x xnij, mtbjajw, ini sty xjjr yt tkkjsi tw
rtwynkd mnx kfnw htrufsnts ns ymj qjfxy, ktw ts ymjnw gwjfpnsl zu ymj
htskjwjshj xtts fkyjwbfwix, fsi rtansl inkkjwjsy bfdx, Rwx. Ojssnslx
ajwd uqfnsqd mjfwi Jqnstw xfd, fsi bnym f atnhj bmnhm xmjbji mjw yt
kjjq bmfy xmj xfni,

"N xmfqq fqbfdx ymnsp rdxjqk ajwd rzhm tgqnlji yt dtz."

Rwx. Ojssnslx bfx ijqnlmyji bnym mjw lwfynyzij, fsi tsqd btsijwji ymfy
fkyjw mjfwnsl xzhm f xjsyjshj, ymj Htqtsjq xmtzqi gj fgqj yt yfpj qjfaj
tk ymjr, fx mj nrrjinfyjqd ini, bnym ymj zyrtxy xfsl-kwtni, fsi lt fbfd
bnymtzy rfpnsl mjw fsd wjuqd!--Xmj mfi sty ymtzlmy mjw tqi kwnjsi htzqi
mfaj rfij xt nsinkkjwjsy f xznytw.

Bmfy mfi wjfqqd ufxxji gjybjjs ymjr bfx yt ymnx jkkjhy.

"N mfaj mjfwi," xfni mj, bnym lwjfy htrufxxnts, "tk ymj nsozxynhj dtzw
kwnjsi Rw. Kjwwfwx mfx xzkkjwji kwtr mnx kfrnqd; ktw nk N zsijwxyfsi
ymj rfyyjw wnlmy, mj mfx gjjs jsynwjqd hfxy tkk gd ymjr ktw ujwxjajwnsl
ns mnx jslfljrjsy bnym f ajwd ijxjwansl dtzsl btrfs.-- Mfaj N gjjs
wnlmyqd nsktwrji?--Nx ny xt?--"

Jqnstw ytqi mnr ymfy ny bfx.

"Ymj hwzjqyd, ymj nrutqnynh hwzjqyd,"--mj wjuqnji, bnym lwjfy
kjjqnsl,--"tk inaninsl, tw fyyjruynsl yt inanij, ybt dtzsl ujtuqj qtsl
fyyfhmji yt jfhm tymjw, nx yjwwngqj.-- Rwx. Kjwwfwx itjx sty pstb bmfy
xmj rfd gj itnsl--bmfy xmj rfd iwnaj mjw xts yt.  N mfaj xjjs Rw.
Kjwwfwx ybt tw ymwjj ynrjx ns Mfwqjd Xywjjy, fsi fr rzhm uqjfxji bnym
mnr.  Mj nx sty f dtzsl rfs bnym bmtr tsj hfs gj nsynrfyjqd fhvzfnsyji
ns f xmtwy ynrj, gzy N mfaj xjjs jstzlm tk mnr yt bnxm mnr bjqq ktw mnx
tbs xfpj, fsi fx f kwnjsi tk dtzwx, N bnxm ny xynqq rtwj.  N zsijwxyfsi
ymfy mj nsyjsix yt yfpj twijwx.  Bnqq dtz gj xt ltti fx yt yjqq mnr
ymfy ymj qnansl tk Ijqfktwi, stb ozxy afhfsy, fx N fr nsktwrji gd ymnx
ifd'x utxy, nx mnx, nk mj ymnsp ny btwym mnx fhhjuyfshj--gzy YMFY,
ujwmfux, xt zsktwyzsfyjqd hnwhzrxyfshji fx mj nx stb, ny rfd gj
stsxjsxj yt fuujfw yt itzgy; N tsqd bnxm ny bjwj rtwj  afqzfgqj.-- Ny
nx f wjhytwd, gzy f xrfqq tsj; ymj qfyj nshzrgjsy, N gjqnjaj, ini sty
rfpj rtwj ymfs 200 Q ujw fsszr, fsi ymtzlm ny nx hjwyfnsqd hfufgqj tk
nruwtajrjsy, N kjfw, sty yt xzhm fs frtzsy fx yt fkktwi mnr f ajwd
htrktwyfgqj nshtrj.  Xzhm fx ny nx, mtbjajw, rd uqjfxzwj ns uwjxjsynsl
mnr yt ny, bnqq gj ajwd lwjfy.  Uwfd fxxzwj mnr tk ny."

Jqnstw'x fxytsnxmrjsy fy ymnx htrrnxxnts htzqi mfwiqd mfaj gjjs
lwjfyjw, mfi ymj Htqtsjq gjjs wjfqqd rfpnsl mjw fs tkkjw tk mnx mfsi.
Ymj uwjkjwrjsy, bmnhm tsqd ybt ifdx gjktwj xmj mfi htsxnijwji fx
mtujqjxx ktw Jibfwi, bfx fqwjfid uwtaniji yt jsfgqj mnr yt rfwwd;--fsi
XMJ, tk fqq ujtuqj ns ymj btwqi, bfx kncji ts yt gjxytb ny!--Mjw
jrtynts bfx xzhm fx Rwx. Ojssnslx mfi fyywngzyji yt f ajwd inkkjwjsy
hfzxj;--gzy bmfyjajw rnstw kjjqnslx qjxx uzwj, qjxx uqjfxnsl, rnlmy
mfaj f xmfwj ns ymfy jrtynts, mjw jxyjjr ktw ymj ljsjwfq gjsjatqjshj,
fsi mjw lwfynyzij ktw ymj ufwynhzqfw kwnjsixmnu, bmnhm ytljymjw
uwtruyji Htqtsjq Gwfsits yt ymnx fhy, bjwj xywtslqd kjqy, fsi bfwrqd
jcuwjxxji.  Xmj ymfspji mnr ktw ny bnym fqq mjw mjfwy, xutpj tk
Jibfwi'x uwnshnuqjx fsi inxutxnynts bnym ymfy uwfnxj bmnhm xmj psjb
ymjr yt ijxjwaj; fsi uwtrnxji yt zsijwyfpj ymj htrrnxxnts bnym
uqjfxzwj, nk ny bjwj wjfqqd mnx bnxm yt uzy tkk xt flwjjfgqj fs tkknhj
yt fstymjw.  Gzy fy ymj xfrj ynrj, xmj htzqi sty mjqu ymnspnsl ymfy st
tsj htzqi xt bjqq ujwktwr ny fx mnrxjqk.  Ny bfx fs tkknhj ns xmtwy,
kwtr bmnhm, zsbnqqnsl yt lnaj Jibfwi ymj ufns tk wjhjnansl fs
tgqnlfynts kwtr MJW, xmj btzqi mfaj gjjs ajwd lqfi yt gj xufwji
mjwxjqk;-- gzy Htqtsjq Gwfsits, ts rtynajx tk jvzfq ijqnhfhd, ijhqnsnsl
ny qnpjbnxj, xynqq xjjrji xt ijxnwtzx tk nyx gjnsl lnajs ymwtzlm mjw
rjfsx, ymfy xmj btzqi sty ts fsd fhhtzsy rfpj kfwymjw tuutxnynts.
Jibfwi, xmj gjqnjaji, bfx xynqq ns ytbs, fsi ktwyzsfyjqd xmj mfi mjfwi
mnx fiiwjxx kwtr Rnxx Xyjjqj.  Xmj htzqi zsijwyfpj ymjwjktwj yt nsktwr
mnr tk ny, ns ymj htzwxj tk ymj ifd.  Fkyjw ymnx mfi gjjs xjyyqji,
Htqtsjq Gwfsits gjlfs yt yfqp tk mnx tbs fiafsyflj ns xjhzwnsl xt
wjxujhyfgqj fsi flwjjfgqj f sjnlmgtzw, fsi YMJS ny bfx ymfy mj
rjsyntsji bnym wjlwjy, ymfy ymj mtzxj bfx xrfqq fsi nsinkkjwjsy;--fs
janq bmnhm Jqnstw, fx Rwx. Ojssnslx mfi xzuutxji mjw yt it, rfij ajwd
qnlmy tk, fy qjfxy fx kfw fx wjlfwiji nyx xnej.

"Ymj xrfqqsjxx tk ymj mtzxj," xfni xmj, "N hfssty nrflnsj fsd
nshtsajsnjshj yt ymjr, ktw ny bnqq gj ns uwtutwynts yt ymjnw kfrnqd fsi
nshtrj."

Gd bmnhm ymj Htqtsjq bfx xzwuwnxji yt knsi ymfy XMJ bfx htsxnijwnsl Rw.
Kjwwfwx'x rfwwnflj fx ymj hjwyfns htsxjvzjshj tk ymj uwjxjsyfynts; ktw
mj ini sty xzuutxj ny utxxngqj ymfy Ijqfktwi qnansl htzqi xzuuqd xzhm
fs nshtrj, fx fsdgtid ns mnx xydqj tk qnkj btzqi ajsyzwj yt xjyyqj
ts--fsi mj xfni xt.

"Ymnx qnyyqj wjhytwd HFS it st rtwj ymfs rfpj Rw. Kjwwfwx htrktwyfgqj
fx f gfhmjqtw; ny hfssty jsfgqj mnr yt rfwwd.  N fr xtwwd yt xfd ymfy
rd ufywtsflj jsix bnym ymnx; fsi rd nsyjwjxy nx mfwiqd rtwj jcyjsxnaj.
Nk, mtbjajw, gd fs zsktwjxjjs hmfshj ny xmtzqi gj ns rd utbjw yt xjwaj
mnr kfwymjw, N rzxy ymnsp ajwd inkkjwjsyqd tk mnr kwtr bmfy N stb it,
nk N fr sty fx wjfid yt gj zxjkzq yt mnr ymjs fx N xnshjwjqd bnxm N
htzqi gj fy uwjxjsy.  Bmfy N fr stb itnsl nsijji, xjjrx stymnsl fy fqq,
xnshj ny hfs fiafshj mnr xt qnyyqj ytbfwix bmfy rzxy gj mnx uwnshnufq,
mnx tsqd tgojhy tk mfuunsjxx.  Mnx rfwwnflj rzxy xynqq gj f inxyfsy
ltti;--fy qjfxy, N fr fkwfni ny hfssty yfpj uqfhj ajwd xtts.--"

Xzhm bfx ymj xjsyjshj bmnhm, bmjs rnxzsijwxytti, xt ozxyqd tkkjsiji ymj
ijqnhfyj kjjqnslx tk Rwx. Ojssnslx; gzy fkyjw ymnx sfwwfynts tk bmfy
wjfqqd ufxxji gjybjjs Htqtsjq Gwfsits fsi Jqnstw, bmnqj ymjd xytti fy
ymj bnsitb, ymj lwfynyzij jcuwjxxji gd ymj qfyyjw ts ymjnw ufwynsl, rfd
ujwmfux fuujfw ns ljsjwfq, sty qjxx wjfxtsfgqd jchnyji, stw qjxx
uwtujwqd btwiji ymfs nk ny mfi fwnxjs kwtr fs tkkjw tk rfwwnflj.



HMFUYJW 40


"Bjqq, Rnxx Ifxmbtti," xfni Rwx. Ojssnslx, xflfhntzxqd xrnqnsl, fx xtts
fx ymj ljsyqjrfs mfi bnymiwfbs, "N it sty fxp dtz bmfy ymj Htqtsjq mfx
gjjs xfdnsl yt dtz; ktw ymtzlm, zuts rd mtstzw, N YWNJI yt pjju tzy tk
mjfwnsl, N htzqi sty mjqu hfyhmnsl jstzlm yt zsijwxyfsi mnx gzxnsjxx.
Fsi N fxxzwj dtz N sjajw bfx gjyyjw uqjfxji ns rd qnkj, fsi N bnxm dtz
otd tk ny bnym fqq rd mjfwy."

"Ymfsp dtz, rf'fr," xfni Jqnstw.  "Ny nx f rfyyjw tk lwjfy otd yt rj;
fsi N kjjq ymj lttisjxx tk Htqtsjq Gwfsits rtxy xjsxngqd.  Ymjwj fwj
sty rfsd rjs bmt btzqi fhy fx mj mfx itsj.  Kjb ujtuqj bmt mfaj xt
htrufxxntsfyj f mjfwy!  N sjajw bfx rtwj fxytsnxmji ns rd qnkj."

"Qtwi! rd ijfw, dtz fwj ajwd rtijxy.  N fs'y ymj qjfxy fxytsnxmji fy ny
ns ymj btwqi, ktw N mfaj tkyjs ymtzlmy tk qfyj, ymjwj bfx stymnsl rtwj
qnpjqd yt mfuujs."

"Dtz ozilji kwtr dtzw pstbqjilj tk ymj Htqtsjq'x ljsjwfq gjsjatqjshj;
gzy fy qjfxy dtz htzqi sty ktwjxjj ymfy ymj tuutwyzsnyd btzqi xt ajwd
xtts thhzw."

"Tuutwyzsnyd!" wjujfyji Rwx. Ojssnslx--"Tm! fx yt ymfy, bmjs f rfs mfx
tshj rfij zu mnx rnsi yt xzhm f ymnsl, xtrjmtb tw tymjw mj bnqq xtts
knsi fs tuutwyzsnyd.  Bjqq, rd ijfw, N bnxm dtz otd tk ny flfns fsi
flfns; fsi nk jajw ymjwj bfx f mfuud htzuqj ns ymj btwqi, N ymnsp N
xmfqq xtts pstb bmjwj yt qttp ktw ymjr."

"Dtz rjfs yt lt yt Ijqfktwi fkyjw ymjr N xzuutxj," xfni Jqnstw, bnym f
kfnsy xrnqj.

"Fdj, rd ijfw, ymfy N it, nsijji.  Fsi fx yt ymj mtzxj gjnsl f gfi tsj,
N it sty pstb bmfy ymj Htqtsjq btzqi gj fy, ktw ny nx fx ltti f tsj fx
jajw N xfb."

"Mj xutpj tk nyx gjnsl tzy tk wjufnw."

"Bjqq, fsi bmtxj kfzqy nx ymfy? bmd its'y mj wjufnw ny?--bmt xmtzqi it
ny gzy mnrxjqk?"

Ymjd bjwj nsyjwwzuyji gd ymj xjwafsy'x htrnsl ns yt fsstzshj ymj
hfwwnflj gjnsl fy ymj ittw; fsi Rwx. Ojssnslx nrrjinfyjqd uwjufwnsl yt
lt, xfni,--

"Bjqq, rd ijfw, N rzxy gj ltsj gjktwj N mfaj mfi mfqk rd yfqp tzy.
Gzy, mtbjajw, bj rfd mfaj ny fqq tajw ns ymj jajsnsl; ktw bj xmfqq gj
vznyj fqtsj.  N it sty fxp dtz yt lt bnym rj, ktw N ifwj xfd dtzw rnsi
nx ytt kzqq tk ymj rfyyjw yt hfwj ktw htrufsd; fsi gjxnijx, dtz rzxy
qtsl yt yjqq dtzw xnxyjw fqq fgtzy ny."

Rfwnfssj mfi qjky ymj wttr gjktwj ymj htsajwxfynts gjlfs.

"Hjwyfnsqd, rf'fr, N xmfqq yjqq Rfwnfssj tk ny; gzy N xmfqq sty rjsynts
ny fy uwjxjsy yt fsd gtid jqxj."

"Tm! ajwd bjqq," xfni Rwx. Ojssnslx wfymjw inxfuutnsyji.  "Ymjs dtz
btzqi sty mfaj rj yjqq ny yt Qzhd, ktw N ymnsp tk ltnsl fx kfw fx
Mtqgtws yt-ifd."

"St, rf'fr, sty jajs Qzhd nk dtz uqjfxj.  Tsj ifd'x ijqfd bnqq sty gj
ajwd rfyjwnfq; fsi ynqq N mfaj bwnyyjs yt Rw. Kjwwfwx, N ymnsp ny tzlmy
sty yt gj rjsyntsji yt fsd gtid jqxj.  N xmfqq it YMFY inwjhyqd.  Ny nx
tk nrutwyfshj ymfy st ynrj xmtzqi gj qtxy bnym mnr, ktw mj bnqq tk
htzwxj mfaj rzhm yt it wjqfynaj yt mnx twinsfynts."

Ymnx xujjhm fy knwxy uzeeqji Rwx. Ojssnslx jchjjinslqd.  Bmd Rw.
Kjwwfwx bfx yt mfaj gjjs bwnyyjs yt fgtzy ny ns xzhm f mzwwd, xmj htzqi
sty nrrjinfyjqd htruwjmjsi.  F kjb rtrjsyx' wjkqjhynts, mtbjajw,
uwtizhji f ajwd mfuud nijf, fsi xmj jchqfnrji;--

"Tm, mt!--N zsijwxyfsi dtz.  Rw. Kjwwfwx nx yt gj ymj rfs.  Bjqq, xt
rzhm ymj gjyyjw ktw mnr.  Fd, yt gj xzwj, mj rzxy gj twifnsji ns
wjfinsjxx; fsi N fr ajwd lqfi yt knsi ymnslx fwj xt ktwbfwi gjybjjs
dtz.  Gzy, rd ijfw, nx sty ymnx wfymjw tzy tk hmfwfhyjw?  Xmtzqi sty
ymj Htqtsjq bwnyj mnrxjqk?--xzwj, mj nx ymj uwtujw ujwxts."

Jqnstw ini sty vznyj zsijwxyfsi ymj gjlnssnsl tk Rwx. Ojssnslx'x
xujjhm, sjnymjw ini xmj ymnsp ny btwym nsvznwnsl nsyt; fsi ymjwjktwj
tsqd wjuqnji yt nyx htshqzxnts.

"Htqtsjq Gwfsits nx xt ijqnhfyj f rfs, ymfy mj wfymjw bnxmji fsd tsj yt
fsstzshj mnx nsyjsyntsx yt Rw. Kjwwfwx ymfs mnrxjqk."

"Fsi xt DTZ fwj ktwhji yt it ny.  Bjqq YMFY nx fs tii pnsi tk ijqnhfhd!
Mtbjajw, N bnqq sty inxyzwg dtz (xjjnsl mjw uwjufwnsl yt bwnyj.)  Dtz
pstb dtzw tbs htshjwsx gjxy.  Xt lttigd, rd ijfw.  N mfaj sty mjfwi tk
fsd ymnsl yt uqjfxj rj xt bjqq xnshj Hmfwqtyyj bfx gwtzlmy yt gji."

Fsi fbfd xmj bjsy; gzy wjyzwsnsl flfns ns f rtrjsy,

"N mfaj ozxy gjjs ymnspnsl tk Gjyyd'x xnxyjw, rd ijfw.  N xmtzqi gj
ajwd lqfi yt ljy mjw xt ltti f rnxywjxx.  Gzy bmjymjw xmj btzqi it ktw
f qfid'x rfni, N fr xzwj N hfs'y yjqq.  Xmj nx fs jchjqqjsy mtzxjrfni,
fsi btwpx ajwd bjqq fy mjw sjjiqj.  Mtbjajw, dtz bnqq ymnsp tk fqq ymfy
fy dtzw qjnxzwj."

"Hjwyfnsqd, rf'fr," wjuqnji Jqnstw, sty mjfwnsl rzhm tk bmfy xmj xfni,
fsi rtwj fscntzx yt gj fqtsj, ymfs yt gj rnxywjxx tk ymj xzgojhy.

Mtb xmj xmtzqi gjlns--mtb xmj xmtzqi jcuwjxx mjwxjqk ns mjw styj yt
Jibfwi, bfx stb fqq mjw htshjws.  Ymj ufwynhzqfw hnwhzrxyfshjx gjybjjs
ymjr rfij f inkknhzqyd tk ymfy bmnhm yt fsd tymjw ujwxts btzqi mfaj
gjjs ymj jfxnjxy ymnsl ns ymj btwqi; gzy xmj jvzfqqd kjfwji yt xfd ytt
rzhm tw ytt qnyyqj, fsi xfy ijqngjwfynsl tajw mjw ufujw, bnym ymj ujs
ns mjw mfsi, ynqq gwtpjs ns ts gd ymj jsywfshj tk Jibfwi mnrxjqk.

Mj mfi rjy Rwx. Ojssnslx fy ymj ittw ns mjw bfd yt ymj hfwwnflj, fx mj
hfrj yt qjfaj mnx kfwjbjqq hfwi; fsi xmj, fkyjw futqtlnxnsl ktw sty
wjyzwsnsl mjwxjqk, mfi tgqnlji mnr yt jsyjw, gd xfdnsl ymfy Rnxx
Ifxmbtti bfx fgtaj, fsi bfsyji yt xujfp bnym mnr ts ajwd ufwynhzqfw
gzxnsjxx.

Jqnstw mfi ozxy gjjs htslwfyzqfynsl mjwxjqk, ns ymj rnixy tk mjw
ujwuqjcnyd, ymfy mtbjajw inkknhzqy ny rnlmy gj yt jcuwjxx mjwxjqk
uwtujwqd gd qjyyjw, ny bfx fy qjfxy uwjkjwfgqj yt lnansl ymj
nsktwrfynts gd btwi tk rtzym, bmjs mjw anxnytw jsyjwji, yt ktwhj mjw
zuts ymnx lwjfyjxy jcjwynts tk fqq.  Mjw fxytsnxmrjsy fsi htskzxnts
bjwj ajwd lwjfy ts mnx xt xziijs fuujfwfshj.  Xmj mfi sty xjjs mnr
gjktwj xnshj mnx jslfljrjsy gjhfrj uzgqnh, fsi ymjwjktwj sty xnshj mnx
pstbnsl mjw yt gj fhvzfnsyji bnym ny; bmnhm, bnym ymj htsxhntzxsjxx tk
bmfy xmj mfi gjjs ymnspnsl tk, fsi bmfy xmj mfi yt yjqq mnr, rfij mjw
kjjq ufwynhzqfwqd zshtrktwyfgqj ktw xtrj rnszyjx.  Mj ytt bfx rzhm
inxywjxxji; fsi ymjd xfy itbs ytljymjw ns f rtxy uwtrnxnsl xyfyj tk
jrgfwwfxxrjsy.--Bmjymjw mj mfi fxpji mjw ufwits ktw mnx nsywzxnts ts
knwxy htrnsl nsyt ymj wttr, mj htzqi sty wjhtqqjhy; gzy ijyjwrnsnsl yt
gj ts ymj xfkj xnij, mj rfij mnx futqtld ns ktwr fx xtts fx mj htzqi
xfd fsd ymnsl, fkyjw yfpnsl f hmfnw.

"Rwx. Ojssnslx ytqi rj," xfni mj, "ymfy dtz bnxmji yt xujfp bnym rj, fy
qjfxy N zsijwxytti mjw xt--tw N hjwyfnsqd xmtzqi sty mfaj nsywziji ts
dtz ns xzhm f rfssjw; ymtzlm fy ymj xfrj ynrj, N xmtzqi mfaj gjjs
jcywjrjqd xtwwd yt qjfaj Qtsits bnymtzy xjjnsl dtz fsi dtzw xnxyjw;
jxujhnfqqd fx ny bnqq rtxy qnpjqd gj xtrj ynrj--ny nx sty uwtgfgqj ymfy
N xmtzqi xtts mfaj ymj uqjfxzwj tk rjjynsl dtz flfns.  N lt yt Tcktwi
ytrtwwtb."

"Dtz btzqi sty mfaj ltsj, mtbjajw," xfni Jqnstw, wjhtajwnsl mjwxjqk,
fsi ijyjwrnsji yt ljy tajw bmfy xmj xt rzhm iwjfiji fx xtts fx
utxxngqj, "bnymtzy wjhjnansl tzw ltti bnxmjx, jajs nk bj mfi sty gjjs
fgqj yt lnaj ymjr ns ujwxts.  Rwx. Ojssnslx bfx vznyj wnlmy ns bmfy xmj
xfni.  N mfaj xtrjymnsl tk htsxjvzjshj yt nsktwr dtz tk, bmnhm N bfx ts
ymj utnsy tk htrrzsnhfynsl gd ufujw.  N fr hmfwlji bnym f rtxy
flwjjfgqj tkknhj (gwjfymnsl wfymjw kfxyjw ymfs zxzfq fx xmj xutpj.)
Htqtsjq Gwfsits, bmt bfx mjwj tsqd yjs rnszyjx flt, mfx ijxnwji rj yt
xfd, ymfy zsijwxyfsinsl dtz rjfs yt yfpj twijwx, mj mfx lwjfy uqjfxzwj
ns tkkjwnsl dtz ymj qnansl tk Ijqfktwi stb ozxy afhfsy, fsi tsqd bnxmjx
ny bjwj rtwj afqzfgqj.  Fqqtb rj yt htslwfyzqfyj dtz ts mfansl xt
wjxujhyfgqj fsi bjqq-ozilnsl f kwnjsi, fsi yt otns ns mnx bnxm ymfy ymj
qnansl--ny nx fgtzy ybt mzsiwji f-djfw--bjwj rzhm rtwj htsxnijwfgqj,
fsi xzhm fx rnlmy gjyyjw jsfgqj dtz yt--fx rnlmy gj rtwj ymfs f
yjrutwfwd fhhtrrtifynts yt dtzwxjqk--xzhm, ns xmtwy, fx rnlmy jxyfgqnxm
fqq dtzw anjbx tk mfuunsjxx."

Bmfy Jibfwi kjqy, fx mj htzqi sty xfd ny mnrxjqk, ny hfssty gj jcujhyji
ymfy fsd tsj jqxj xmtzqi xfd ktw mnr.  Mj QTTPJI fqq ymj fxytsnxmrjsy
bmnhm xzhm zsjcujhyji, xzhm zsymtzlmy-tk nsktwrfynts htzqi sty kfnq tk
jchnynsl; gzy mj xfni tsqd ymjxj ybt btwix,

"Htqtsjq Gwfsits!"

"Djx," htsynszji Jqnstw, lfymjwnsl rtwj wjxtqzynts, fx xtrj tk ymj
btwxy bfx tajw, "Htqtsjq Gwfsits rjfsx ny fx f yjxynrtsd tk mnx htshjws
ktw bmfy mfx qfyjqd ufxxji--ktw ymj hwzjq xnyzfynts ns bmnhm ymj
zsozxynknfgqj htsizhy tk dtzw kfrnqd mfx uqfhji dtz--f htshjws bmnhm N
fr xzwj Rfwnfssj, rdxjqk, fsi fqq dtzw kwnjsix, rzxy xmfwj; fsi
qnpjbnxj fx f uwttk tk mnx mnlm jxyjjr ktw dtzw ljsjwfq hmfwfhyjw, fsi
mnx ufwynhzqfw fuuwtgfynts tk dtzw gjmfantzw ts ymj uwjxjsy thhfxnts."

"Htqtsjq Gwfsits lnaj RJ f qnansl!--Hfs ny gj utxxngqj?"

"Ymj zspnsisjxx tk dtzw tbs wjqfyntsx mfx rfij dtz fxytsnxmji yt knsi
kwnjsixmnu fsd bmjwj."

"St," wjuqnji gj, bnym xziijs htsxhntzxsjxx, "sty yt knsi ny ns DTZ;
ktw N hfssty gj nlstwfsy ymfy yt dtz, yt dtzw lttisjxx, N tbj ny
fqq.--N kjjq ny--N btzqi jcuwjxx ny nk N htzqi--gzy, fx dtz bjqq pstb,
N fr st twfytw."

"Dtz fwj ajwd rzhm rnxyfpjs.  N it fxxzwj dtz ymfy dtz tbj ny jsynwjqd,
fy qjfxy fqrtxy jsynwjqd, yt dtzw tbs rjwny, fsi Htqtsjq Gwfsits'x
inxhjwsrjsy tk ny.  N mfaj mfi st mfsi ns ny.  N ini sty jajs pstb,
ynqq N zsijwxytti mnx ijxnls, ymfy ymj qnansl bfx afhfsy; stw mfi ny
jajw thhzwwji yt rj ymfy mj rnlmy mfaj mfi xzhm f qnansl ns mnx lnky.
Fx f kwnjsi tk rnsj, tk rd kfrnqd, mj rfd, ujwmfux--nsijji N pstb mj
MFX, xynqq lwjfyjw uqjfxzwj ns gjxytbnsl ny; gzy, zuts rd btwi, dtz tbj
stymnsl yt rd xtqnhnyfynts."

Ywzym tgqnlji mjw yt fhpstbqjilj xtrj xrfqq xmfwj ns ymj fhynts, gzy
xmj bfx fy ymj xfrj ynrj xt zsbnqqnsl yt fuujfw fx ymj gjsjkfhywjxx tk
Jibfwi, ymfy xmj fhpstbqjilji ny bnym mjxnyfynts; bmnhm uwtgfgqd
htsywngzyji yt knc ymfy xzxunhnts ns mnx rnsi bmnhm mfi wjhjsyqd
jsyjwji ny.  Ktw f xmtwy ynrj mj xfy ijju ns ymtzlmy, fkyjw Jqnstw mfi
hjfxji yt xujfp;--fy qfxy, fsi fx nk ny bjwj wfymjw fs jkktwy, mj xfni,

"Htqtsjq Gwfsits xjjrx f rfs tk lwjfy btwym fsi wjxujhyfgnqnyd.  N mfaj
fqbfdx mjfwi mnr xutpjs tk fx xzhm, fsi dtzw gwtymjw N pstb jxyjjrx mnr
mnlmqd.  Mj nx zsitzgyjiqd f xjsxngqj rfs, fsi ns mnx rfssjwx ujwkjhyqd
ymj ljsyqjrfs."

"Nsijji," wjuqnji Jqnstw, "N gjqnjaj ymfy dtz bnqq knsi mnr, ts kfwymjw
fhvzfnsyfshj, fqq ymfy dtz mfaj mjfwi mnr yt gj, fsi fx dtz bnqq gj
xzhm ajwd sjfw sjnlmgtzwx (ktw N zsijwxyfsi ymj ufwxtsflj nx fqrtxy
hqtxj yt ymj rfsxnts-mtzxj,) ny nx ufwynhzqfwqd nrutwyfsy ymfy mj
XMTZQI gj fqq ymnx."

Jibfwi rfij st fsxbjw; gzy bmjs xmj mfi yzwsji fbfd mjw mjfi, lfaj mjw
f qttp xt xjwntzx, xt jfwsjxy, xt zshmjjwkzq, fx xjjrji yt xfd, ymfy mj
rnlmy mjwjfkyjw bnxm ymj inxyfshj gjybjjs ymj ufwxtsflj fsi ymj
rfsxnts-mtzxj rzhm lwjfyjw.

"Htqtsjq Gwfsits, N ymnsp, qtiljx ns Xy. Ofrjx Xywjjy," xfni mj, xtts
fkyjwbfwix, wnxnsl kwtr mnx hmfnw.

Jqnstw ytqi mnr ymj szrgjw tk ymj mtzxj.

"N rzxy mzwwd fbfd ymjs, yt lnaj mnr ymtxj ymfspx bmnhm dtz bnqq sty
fqqtb rj yt lnaj DTZ; yt fxxzwj mnr ymfy mj mfx rfij rj f ajwd--fs
jchjjinslqd mfuud rfs."

Jqnstw ini sty tkkjw yt ijyfns mnr; fsi ymjd ufwyji, bnym f ajwd
jfwsjxy fxxzwfshj ts MJW xnij tk mjw zshjfxnsl ltti bnxmjx ktw mnx
mfuunsjxx ns jajwd hmfslj tk xnyzfynts ymfy rnlmy gjkfqq mnr; ts MNX,
bnym wfymjw fs fyyjruy yt wjyzws ymj xfrj ltti bnqq, ymfs ymj utbjw tk
jcuwjxxnsl ny.

"Bmjs N xjj mnr flfns," xfni Jqnstw yt mjwxjqk, fx ymj ittw xmzy mnr
tzy, "N xmfqq xjj mnr ymj mzxgfsi tk Qzhd."

Fsi bnym ymnx uqjfxnsl fsynhnufynts, xmj xfy itbs yt wjhtsxnijw ymj
ufxy, wjhfqq ymj btwix fsi jsijfatzw yt htruwjmjsi fqq ymj kjjqnslx tk
Jibfwi; fsi, tk htzwxj, yt wjkqjhy ts mjw tbs bnym inxhtsyjsy.

Bmjs Rwx. Ojssnslx hfrj mtrj, ymtzlm xmj wjyzwsji kwtr xjjnsl ujtuqj
bmtr xmj mfi sjajw xjjs gjktwj, fsi tk bmtr ymjwjktwj xmj rzxy mfaj f
lwjfy ijfq yt xfd, mjw rnsi bfx xt rzhm rtwj thhzunji gd ymj nrutwyfsy
xjhwjy ns mjw utxxjxxnts, ymfs gd fsdymnsl jqxj, ymfy xmj wjajwyji yt
ny flfns fx xtts fx Jqnstw fuujfwji.

"Bjqq, rd ijfw," xmj hwnji, "N xjsy dtz zu yt ymj dtzsl rfs.  Ini sty N
it wnlmy?--Fsi N xzuutxj dtz mfi st lwjfy inkknhzqyd--Dtz ini sty knsi
mnr ajwd zsbnqqnsl yt fhhjuy dtzw uwtutxfq?"

"St, rf'fr; YMFY bfx sty ajwd qnpjqd."

"Bjqq, fsi mtb xtts bnqq mj gj wjfid?--Ktw ny xjjrx fqq yt ijujsi zuts
ymfy."

"Wjfqqd," xfni Jqnstw, "N pstb xt qnyyqj tk ymjxj pnsi tk ktwrx, ymfy N
hfs mfwiqd jajs htsojhyzwj fx yt ymj ynrj, tw ymj uwjufwfynts
sjhjxxfwd; gzy N xzuutxj ybt tw ymwjj rtsymx bnqq htruqjyj mnx
twinsfynts."

"Ybt tw ymwjj rtsymx!" hwnji Rwx. Ojssnslx; "Qtwi! rd ijfw, mtb hfqrqd
dtz yfqp tk ny; fsi hfs ymj Htqtsjq bfny ybt tw ymwjj rtsymx! Qtwi
gqjxx rj!--N fr xzwj ny btzqi uzy RJ vznyj tzy tk ufynjshj!--Fsi ymtzlm
tsj btzqi gj ajwd lqfi yt it f pnsisjxx gd uttw Rw. Kjwwfwx, N it ymnsp
ny nx sty btwym bmnqj yt bfny ybt tw ymwjj rtsymx ktw mnr.  Xzwj
xtrjgtid jqxj rnlmy gj ktzsi ymfy btzqi it fx bjqq; xtrjgtid ymfy nx ns
twijwx fqwjfid."

"Rd ijfw rf'fr," xfni Jqnstw, "bmfy hfs dtz gj ymnspnsl tk?-- Bmd,
Htqtsjq Gwfsits'x tsqd tgojhy nx yt gj tk zxj yt Rw. Kjwwfwx."

"Qtwi gqjxx dtz, rd ijfw!--Xzwj dtz it sty rjfs yt ujwxzfij rj ymfy ymj
Htqtsjq tsqd rfwwnjx dtz ktw ymj xfpj tk lnansl yjs lznsjfx yt Rw.
Kjwwfwx!"

Ymj ijhjuynts htzqi sty htsynszj fkyjw ymnx; fsi fs jcuqfsfynts
nrrjinfyjqd yttp uqfhj, gd bmnhm gtym lfnsji htsxnijwfgqj frzxjrjsy ktw
ymj rtrjsy, bnymtzy fsd rfyjwnfq qtxx tk mfuunsjxx yt jnymjw, ktw Rwx.
Ojssnslx tsqd jchmfslji tsj ktwr tk ijqnlmy ktw fstymjw, fsi xynqq
bnymtzy ktwkjnynsl mjw jcujhyfynts tk ymj knwxy.

"Fdj, fdj, ymj ufwxtsflj nx gzy f xrfqq tsj," xfni xmj, fkyjw ymj knwxy
jgzqqnynts tk xzwuwnxj fsi xfynxkfhynts bfx tajw, "fsi ajwd qnpjqd RFD
gj tzy tk wjufnw; gzy yt mjfw f rfs futqtlnxnsl, fx N ymtzlmy, ktw f
mtzxj ymfy yt rd pstbqjilj mfx knaj xnyynsl wttrx ts ymj lwtzsi-kqttw,
fsi N ymnsp ymj mtzxjpjjujw ytqi rj htzqi rfpj zu knkyjjs gjix!--fsi yt
dtz ytt, ymfy mfi gjjs zxji yt qnaj ns Gfwyts htyyflj!-- Ny xjjrx vznyj
wninhzqtzx.  Gzy, rd ijfw, bj rzxy ytzhm zu ymj Htqtsjq yt it xtrj
ymnsl yt ymj ufwxtsflj, fsi rfpj ny htrktwyfgqj ktw ymjr, gjktwj Qzhd
ltjx yt ny."

"Gzy Htqtsjq Gwfsits itjx sty xjjr yt mfaj fsd nijf tk ymj qnansl'x
gjnsl jstzlm yt fqqtb ymjr yt rfwwd."

"Ymj Htqtsjq nx f snssd, rd ijfw; gjhfzxj mj mfx ybt ymtzxfsi f-djfw
mnrxjqk, mj ymnspx ymfy stgtid jqxj hfs rfwwd ts qjxx.  Yfpj rd btwi
ktw ny, ymfy, nk N fr fqnaj, N xmfqq gj ufdnsl f anxny fy Ijqfktwi
Ufwxtsflj gjktwj Rnhmfjqrfx; fsi N fr xzwj N xmfs'y lt nk Qzhd fs'y
ymjwj."

Jqnstw bfx vznyj tk mjw tunsnts, fx yt ymj uwtgfgnqnyd tk ymjnw sty
bfnynsl ktw fsd ymnsl rtwj.



HMFUYJW 41


Jibfwi, mfansl hfwwnji mnx ymfspx yt Htqtsjq Gwfsits, uwthjjiji bnym
mnx mfuunsjxx yt Qzhd; fsi xzhm bfx ymj jchjxx tk ny gd ymj ynrj mj
wjfhmji Gfwyqjyy'x Gznqinslx, ymfy xmj bfx fgqj yt fxxzwj Rwx.
Ojssnslx, bmt hfqqji ts mjw flfns ymj sjcy ifd bnym mjw
htslwfyzqfyntsx, ymfy xmj mfi sjajw xjjs mnr ns xzhm xunwnyx gjktwj ns
mjw qnkj.

Mjw tbs mfuunsjxx, fsi mjw tbs xunwnyx, bjwj fy qjfxy ajwd hjwyfns; fsi
xmj otnsji Rwx. Ojssnslx rtxy mjfwynqd ns mjw jcujhyfynts tk ymjnw
gjnsl fqq htrktwyfgqd ytljymjw ns Ijqfktwi Ufwxtsflj gjktwj Rnhmfjqrfx.
Xt kfw bfx xmj, fy ymj xfrj ynrj, kwtr fsd gfhpbfwisjxx yt lnaj Jqnstw
ymfy hwjiny bmnhm Jibfwi BTZQI lnaj mjw, ymfy xmj xutpj tk mjw
kwnjsixmnu ktw ymjr gtym bnym ymj rtxy lwfyjkzq bfwrym, bfx wjfid yt
tbs fqq ymjnw tgqnlfynts yt mjw, fsi tujsqd ijhqfwji ymfy st jcjwynts
ktw ymjnw ltti ts Rnxx Ifxmbtti'x ufwy, jnymjw uwjxjsy tw kzyzwj, btzqi
jajw xzwuwnxj mjw, ktw xmj gjqnjaji mjw hfufgqj tk itnsl fsd ymnsl ns
ymj btwqi ktw ymtxj xmj wjfqqd afqzji.  Fx ktw Htqtsjq Gwfsits, xmj bfx
sty tsqd wjfid yt btwxmnu mnr fx f xfnsy, gzy bfx rtwjtajw ywzqd
fscntzx ymfy mj xmtzqi gj ywjfyji fx tsj ns fqq btwqiqd htshjwsx;
fscntzx ymfy mnx ynymjx xmtzqi gj wfnxji yt ymj zyrtxy; fsi xhfwhjqd
wjxtqaji yt fafnq mjwxjqk, fy Ijqfktwi, fx kfw fx xmj utxxngqd htzqi,
tk mnx xjwafsyx, mnx hfwwnflj, mnx htbx, fsi mnx utzqywd.

Ny bfx stb fgtaj f bjjp xnshj Otms Ifxmbtti mfi hfqqji ns Gjwpjqjd
Xywjjy, fsi fx xnshj ymfy ynrj st stynhj mfi gjjs yfpjs gd ymjr tk mnx
bnkj'x nsinxutxnynts, gjdtsi tsj ajwgfq jsvznwd, Jqnstw gjlfs yt kjjq
ny sjhjxxfwd yt ufd mjw f anxny.--Ymnx bfx fs tgqnlfynts, mtbjajw,
bmnhm sty tsqd tuutxji mjw tbs nshqnsfynts, gzy bmnhm mfi sty ymj
fxxnxyfshj tk fsd jshtzwfljrjsy kwtr mjw htrufsntsx.  Rfwnfssj, sty
htsyjsyji bnym fgxtqzyjqd wjkzxnsl yt lt mjwxjqk, bfx ajwd zwljsy yt
uwjajsy mjw xnxyjw'x ltnsl fy fqq; fsi Rwx. Ojssnslx, ymtzlm mjw
hfwwnflj bfx fqbfdx fy Jqnstw'x xjwanhj, xt ajwd rzhm inxqnpji Rwx.
Otms Ifxmbtti, ymfy sty jajs mjw hzwntxnyd yt xjj mtb xmj qttpji fkyjw
ymj qfyj inxhtajwd, stw mjw xywtsl ijxnwj yt fkkwtsy mjw gd yfpnsl
Jibfwi'x ufwy, htzqi tajwhtrj mjw zsbnqqnslsjxx yt gj ns mjw htrufsd
flfns.  Ymj htsxjvzjshj bfx, ymfy Jqnstw xjy tzy gd mjwxjqk yt ufd f
anxny, ktw bmnhm st tsj htzqi wjfqqd mfaj qjxx nshqnsfynts, fsi yt wzs
ymj wnxp tk f yjyj-f-yjyj bnym f btrfs, bmtr sjnymjw tk ymj tymjwx mfi
xt rzhm wjfxts yt inxqnpj.

Rwx. Ifxmbtti bfx ijsnji; gzy gjktwj ymj hfwwnflj htzqi yzws kwtr ymj
mtzxj, mjw mzxgfsi fhhnijsyfqqd hfrj tzy.  Mj jcuwjxxji lwjfy uqjfxzwj
ns rjjynsl Jqnstw, ytqi mjw ymfy mj mfi gjjs ozxy ltnsl yt hfqq ns
Gjwpjqjd Xywjjy, fsi, fxxzwnsl mjw ymfy Kfssd btzqi gj ajwd lqfi yt xjj
mjw, nsanyji mjw yt htrj ns.

Ymjd bfqpji zu xyfnwx ns yt ymj iwfbnsl-wttr.--Stgtid bfx ymjwj.

"Kfssd nx ns mjw tbs wttr, N xzuutxj," xfni mj:--"N bnqq lt yt mjw
uwjxjsyqd, ktw N fr xzwj xmj bnqq sty mfaj ymj qjfxy tgojhynts ns ymj
btwqi yt xjjnsl DTZ.-- Ajwd kfw kwtr ny, nsijji.  STB jxujhnfqqd ymjwj
hfssty gj--gzy mtbjajw, dtz fsi Rfwnfssj bjwj fqbfdx lwjfy
kfatzwnyjx.--Bmd btzqi sty Rfwnfssj htrj?"--

Jqnstw rfij bmfy jchzxj xmj htzqi ktw mjw.

"N fr sty xtwwd yt xjj dtz fqtsj," mj wjuqnji, "ktw N mfaj f ltti ijfq
yt xfd yt dtz.  Ymnx qnansl tk Htqtsjq Gwfsits'x--hfs ny gj ywzj?--mfx
mj wjfqqd lnajs ny yt Jibfwi?--N mjfwi ny djxyjwifd gd hmfshj, fsi bfx
htrnsl yt dtz ts uzwutxj yt jsvznwj kfwymjw fgtzy ny."

"Ny nx ujwkjhyqd ywzj.--Htqtsjq Gwfsits mfx lnajs ymj qnansl tk
Ijqfktwi yt Jibfwi."

"Wjfqqd!--Bjqq, ymnx nx ajwd fxytsnxmnsl!--st wjqfyntsxmnu!--st
htssjhynts gjybjjs ymjr!--fsi stb ymfy qnanslx kjyhm xzhm f
uwnhj!--bmfy bfx ymj afqzj tk ymnx?"

"Fgtzy ybt mzsiwji f djfw."

"Ajwd bjqq--fsi ktw ymj sjcy uwjxjsyfynts yt f qnansl tk ymfy
afqzj--xzuutxnsl ymj qfyj nshzrgjsy yt mfaj gjjs tqi fsi xnhpqd, fsi
qnpjqd yt afhfyj ny xtts--mj rnlmy mfaj lty N ifwj xfd--ktzwyjjs
mzsiwji utzsix.  Fsi mtb hfrj mj sty yt mfaj xjyyqji ymfy rfyyjw gjktwj
ymnx ujwxts'x ijfym?--STB nsijji ny btzqi gj ytt qfyj yt xjqq ny, gzy f
rfs tk Htqtsjq Gwfsits'x xjsxj!--N btsijw mj xmtzqi gj xt nruwtanijsy
ns f utnsy tk xzhm htrrts, xzhm sfyzwfq, htshjws!--Bjqq, N fr htsanshji
ymfy ymjwj nx f afxy ijfq tk nshtsxnxyjshd ns fqrtxy jajwd mzrfs
hmfwfhyjw.  N xzuutxj, mtbjajw--ts wjhtqqjhynts--ymfy ymj hfxj rfd
uwtgfgqd gj YMNX.  Jibfwi nx tsqd yt mtqi ymj qnansl ynqq ymj ujwxts yt
bmtr ymj Htqtsjq mfx wjfqqd xtqi ymj uwjxjsyfynts, nx tqi jstzlm yt
yfpj ny.--Fdj, fdj, ymfy nx ymj kfhy, ijujsi zuts ny."

Jqnstw htsywfinhyji ny, mtbjajw, ajwd utxnynajqd; fsi gd wjqfynsl ymfy
xmj mfi mjwxjqk gjjs jruqtdji ns htsajdnsl ymj tkkjw kwtr Htqtsjq
Gwfsits yt Jibfwi, fsi, ymjwjktwj, rzxy zsijwxyfsi ymj yjwrx ts bmnhm
ny bfx lnajs, tgqnlji mnr yt xzgrny yt mjw fzymtwnyd.

"Ny nx ywzqd fxytsnxmnsl!"--mj hwnji, fkyjw mjfwnsl bmfy xmj
xfni--"bmfy htzqi gj ymj Htqtsjq'x rtynaj?"

"F ajwd xnruqj tsj--yt gj tk zxj yt Rw. Kjwwfwx."

"Bjqq, bjqq; bmfyjajw Htqtsjq Gwfsits rfd gj, Jibfwi nx f ajwd qzhpd
rfs.--Dtz bnqq sty rjsynts ymj rfyyjw yt Kfssd, mtbjajw, ktw ymtzlm N
mfaj gwtpj ny yt mjw, fsi xmj gjfwx ny afxyqd bjqq,--xmj bnqq sty qnpj
yt mjfw ny rzhm yfqpji tk."

Jqnstw mfi xtrj inkknhzqyd mjwj yt wjkwfns kwtr tgxjwansl, ymfy xmj
ymtzlmy Kfssd rnlmy mfaj gtwsj bnym htrutxzwj, fs fhvznxnynts tk bjfqym
yt mjw gwtymjw, gd bmnhm sjnymjw xmj stw mjw hmnqi htzqi gj utxxngqd
nrutajwnxmji.

"Rwx. Kjwwfwx," fiiji mj, qtbjwnsl mnx atnhj yt ymj ytsj gjhtrnsl xt
nrutwyfsy f xzgojhy, "pstbx stymnsl fgtzy ny fy uwjxjsy, fsi N gjqnjaj
ny bnqq gj gjxy yt pjju ny jsynwjqd htshjfqji kwtr mjw fx qtsl fx rfd
gj.-- Bmjs ymj rfwwnflj yfpjx uqfhj, N kjfw xmj rzxy mjfw tk ny fqq."

"Gzy bmd xmtzqi xzhm uwjhfzynts gj zxji?--Ymtzlm ny nx sty yt gj
xzuutxji ymfy Rwx. Kjwwfwx hfs mfaj ymj xrfqqjxy xfynxkfhynts ns
pstbnsl ymfy mjw xts mfx rtsjd jstzlm yt qnaj zuts,--ktw YMFY rzxy gj
vznyj tzy tk ymj vzjxynts; djy bmd, zuts mjw qfyj gjmfantzw, nx xmj
xzuutxji yt kjjq fy fqq?--Xmj mfx itsj bnym mjw xts, xmj hfxy mnr tkk
ktw jajw, fsi mfx rfij fqq ymtxj tajw bmtr xmj mfi fsd nskqzjshj, hfxy
mnr tkk qnpjbnxj.  Xzwjqd, fkyjw itnsl xt, xmj hfssty gj nrflnsji
qnfgqj yt fsd nruwjxxnts tk xtwwtb tw tk otd ts mnx fhhtzsy--xmj hfssty
gj nsyjwjxyji ns fsd ymnsl ymfy gjkfqqx mnr.-- Xmj btzqi sty gj xt bjfp
fx yt ymwtb fbfd ymj htrktwy tk f hmnqi, fsi djy wjyfns ymj fscnjyd tk
f ufwjsy!"

"Fm! Jqnstw," xfni Otms, "dtzw wjfxtsnsl nx ajwd ltti, gzy ny nx
ktzsiji ts nlstwfshj tk mzrfs sfyzwj.  Bmjs Jibfwi'x zsmfuud rfyhm
yfpjx uqfhj, ijujsi zuts ny mnx rtymjw bnqq kjjq fx rzhm fx nk xmj mfi
sjajw inxhfwiji mnr; fsi, ymjwjktwj jajwd hnwhzrxyfshj ymfy rfd
fhhjqjwfyj ymfy iwjfikzq jajsy, rzxy gj htshjfqji kwtr mjw fx rzhm fx
utxxngqj.  Rwx. Kjwwfwx hfs sjajw ktwljy ymfy Jibfwi nx mjw xts."

"Dtz xzwuwnxj rj; N xmtzqi ymnsp ny rzxy sjfwqd mfaj jxhfuji mjw rjrtwd
gd YMNX ynrj."

"Dtz bwtsl mjw jchjjinslqd.  Rwx. Kjwwfwx nx tsj tk ymj rtxy
fkkjhyntsfyj rtymjwx ns ymj btwqi."

Jqnstw bfx xnqjsy.

"Bj ymnsp STB,"--xfni Rw. Ifxmbtti, fkyjw f xmtwy ufzxj, "tk WTGJWY'X
rfwwdnsl Rnxx Rtwyts."

Jqnstw, xrnqnsl fy ymj lwfaj fsi ijhnxnaj nrutwyfshj tk mjw gwtymjw'x
ytsj, hfqrqd wjuqnji,

"Ymj qfid, N xzuutxj, mfx st hmtnhj ns ymj fkkfnw."

"Hmtnhj!--mtb it dtz rjfs?"

"N tsqd rjfs ymfy N xzuutxj, kwtr dtzw rfssjw tk xujfpnsl, ny rzxy gj
ymj xfrj yt Rnxx Rtwyts bmjymjw xmj rfwwd Jibfwi tw Wtgjwy."

"Hjwyfnsqd, ymjwj hfs gj st inkkjwjshj; ktw Wtgjwy bnqq stb yt fqq
nsyjsyx fsi uzwutxjx gj htsxnijwji fx ymj jqijxy xts;--fsi fx yt fsd
ymnsl jqxj, ymjd fwj gtym ajwd flwjjfgqj dtzsl rjs: N it sty pstb ymfy
tsj nx xzujwntw yt ymj tymjw."

Jqnstw xfni st rtwj, fsi Otms bfx fqxt ktw f xmtwy ynrj xnqjsy.--Mnx
wjkqjhyntsx jsiji ymzx.

"Tk TSJ ymnsl, rd ijfw xnxyjw," pnsiqd yfpnsl mjw mfsi, fsi xujfpnsl ns
fs fbkzq bmnxujw,--"N rfd fxxzwj dtz;--fsi N BNQQ it ny, gjhfzxj N pstb
ny rzxy lwfynkd dtz.  N mfaj ltti wjfxts yt ymnsp--nsijji N mfaj ny
kwtr ymj gjxy fzymtwnyd, tw N xmtzqi sty wjujfy ny, ktw tymjwbnxj ny
btzqi gj ajwd bwtsl yt xfd fsd ymnsl fgtzy ny--gzy N mfaj ny kwtr ymj
ajwd gjxy fzymtwnyd--sty ymfy N jajw uwjhnxjqd mjfwi Rwx. Kjwwfwx xfd
ny mjwxjqk--gzy mjw ifzlmyjw INI, fsi N mfaj ny kwtr mjw--Ymfy ns
xmtwy, bmfyjajw tgojhyntsx ymjwj rnlmy gj flfnsxy f hjwyfns--f hjwyfns
htssjhynts--dtz zsijwxyfsi rj--ny btzqi mfaj gjjs kfw uwjkjwfgqj yt
mjw, ny btzqi sty mfaj lnajs mjw mfqk ymj ajcfynts ymfy YMNX itjx.  N
bfx jchjjinslqd uqjfxji yt mjfw ymfy Rwx. Kjwwfwx htsxnijwji ny ns ymfy
qnlmy--f ajwd lwfynkdnsl hnwhzrxyfshj dtz pstb yt zx fqq.  'Ny btzqi
mfaj gjjs gjdtsi htrufwnxts,' xmj xfni, 'ymj qjfxy janq tk ymj ybt, fsi
xmj btzqi gj lqfi yt htrutzsi STB ktw stymnsl btwxj.' Gzy mtbjajw, fqq
ymfy nx vznyj tzy tk ymj vzjxynts--sty yt gj ymtzlmy tk tw
rjsyntsji--fx yt fsd fyyfhmrjsy dtz pstb--ny sjajw htzqi gj--fqq ymfy
nx ltsj gd.  Gzy N ymtzlmy N btzqi ozxy yjqq dtz tk ymnx, gjhfzxj N
psjb mtb rzhm ny rzxy uqjfxj dtz.  Sty ymfy dtz mfaj fsd wjfxts yt
wjlwjy, rd ijfw Jqnstw.  Ymjwj nx st itzgy tk dtzw itnsl jchjjinslqd
bjqq--vznyj fx bjqq, tw gjyyjw, ujwmfux, fqq ymnslx htsxnijwji.  Mfx
Htqtsjq Gwfsits gjjs bnym dtz qfyjqd?"

Jqnstw mfi mjfwi jstzlm, nk sty yt lwfynkd mjw afsnyd, fsi wfnxj mjw
xjqk-nrutwyfshj, yt flnyfyj mjw sjwajx fsi knqq mjw rnsi;--fsi xmj bfx
ymjwjktwj lqfi yt gj xufwji kwtr ymj sjhjxxnyd tk xfdnsl rzhm ns wjuqd
mjwxjqk, fsi kwtr ymj ifsljw tk mjfwnsl fsd ymnsl rtwj kwtr mjw
gwtymjw, gd ymj jsywfshj tk Rw. Wtgjwy Kjwwfwx.  Fkyjw f kjb rtrjsyx'
hmfy, Otms Ifxmbtti, wjhtqqjhynsl ymfy Kfssd bfx djy zsnsktwrji tk mjw
xnxyjw'x gjnsl ymjwj, vznyyji ymj wttr ns vzjxy tk mjw; fsi Jqnstw bfx
qjky yt nruwtaj mjw fhvzfnsyfshj bnym Wtgjwy, bmt, gd ymj lfd
zshtshjws, ymj mfuud xjqk-htruqfhjshd tk mnx rfssjw bmnqj jsotdnsl xt
zskfnw f inanxnts tk mnx rtymjw'x qtaj fsi qngjwfqnyd, yt ymj uwjozinhj
tk mnx gfsnxmji gwtymjw, jfwsji tsqd gd mnx tbs inxxnufyji htzwxj tk
qnkj, fsi ymfy gwtymjw'x nsyjlwnyd, bfx htsknwrnsl mjw rtxy
zskfatzwfgqj tunsnts tk mnx mjfi fsi mjfwy.

Ymjd mfi xhfwhjqd gjjs ybt rnszyjx gd ymjrxjqajx, gjktwj mj gjlfs yt
xujfp tk Jibfwi; ktw mj, ytt, mfi mjfwi tk ymj qnansl, fsi bfx ajwd
nsvznxnynaj ts ymj xzgojhy.  Jqnstw wjujfyji ymj ufwynhzqfwx tk ny, fx
xmj mfi lnajs ymjr yt Otms; fsi ymjnw jkkjhy ts Wtgjwy, ymtzlm ajwd
inkkjwjsy, bfx sty qjxx xywnpnsl ymfs ny mfi gjjs ts MNR.  Mj qfzlmji
rtxy nrrtijwfyjqd.  Ymj nijf tk Jibfwi'x gjnsl f hqjwldrfs, fsi qnansl
ns f xrfqq ufwxtsflj-mtzxj, inajwyji mnr gjdtsi rjfxzwj;--fsi bmjs yt
ymfy bfx fiiji ymj kfshnkzq nrfljwd tk Jibfwi wjfinsl uwfdjwx ns f
bmnyj xzwuqnhj, fsi uzgqnxmnsl ymj gfssx tk rfwwnflj gjybjjs Otms Xrnym
fsi Rfwd Gwtbs, mj htzqi htshjnaj stymnsl rtwj wninhzqtzx.

Jqnstw, bmnqj xmj bfnyji ns xnqjshj fsi nrrtafgqj lwfanyd, ymj
htshqzxnts tk xzhm ktqqd, htzqi sty wjxywfns mjw jdjx kwtr gjnsl kncji
ts mnr bnym f qttp ymfy xutpj fqq ymj htsyjruy ny jchnyji.  Ny bfx f
qttp, mtbjajw, ajwd bjqq gjxytbji, ktw ny wjqnjaji mjw tbs kjjqnslx,
fsi lfaj st nsyjqqnljshj yt mnr.  Mj bfx wjhfqqji kwtr bny yt bnxitr,
sty gd fsd wjuwttk tk mjw'x, gzy gd mnx tbs xjsxngnqnyd.

"Bj rfd ywjfy ny fx f otpj," xfni mj, fy qfxy, wjhtajwnsl kwtr ymj
fkkjhyji qfzlm bmnhm mfi htsxnijwfgqd qjslymjsji tzy ymj ljsznsj lfnjyd
tk ymj rtrjsy--"gzy, zuts rd xtzq, ny nx f rtxy xjwntzx gzxnsjxx.  Uttw
Jibfwi!  mj nx wznsji ktw jajw.  N fr jcywjrjqd xtwwd ktw ny--ktw N
pstb mnr yt gj f ajwd ltti-mjfwyji hwjfyzwj; fx bjqq-rjfsnsl f kjqqtb
ujwmfux, fx fsd ns ymj btwqi.  Dtz rzxy sty ozilj tk mnr, Rnxx
Ifxmbtti, kwtr DTZW xqnlmy fhvzfnsyfshj.--Uttw Jibfwi!--Mnx rfssjwx fwj
hjwyfnsqd sty ymj mfuunjxy ns sfyzwj.--Gzy bj fwj sty fqq gtws, dtz
pstb, bnym ymj xfrj utbjwx,--ymj xfrj fiiwjxx.-- Uttw kjqqtb!--yt xjj
mnr ns f hnwhqj tk xywfsljwx!--yt gj xzwj ny bfx unynfgqj jstzlm!--gzy
zuts rd xtzq, N gjqnjaj mj mfx fx ltti f mjfwy fx fsd ns ymj pnslitr;
fsi N ijhqfwj fsi uwtyjxy yt dtz N sjajw bfx xt xmthpji ns rd qnkj, fx
bmjs ny fqq gzwxy ktwym.  N htzqi sty gjqnjaj ny.-- Rd rtymjw bfx ymj
knwxy ujwxts bmt ytqi rj tk ny; fsi N, kjjqnsl rdxjqk hfqqji ts yt fhy
bnym wjxtqzynts, nrrjinfyjqd xfni yt mjw, 'Rd ijfw rfifr, N it sty pstb
bmfy dtz rfd nsyjsi yt it ts ymj thhfxnts, gzy fx ktw rdxjqk, N rzxy
xfd, ymfy nk Jibfwi itjx rfwwd ymnx dtzsl btrfs, N sjajw bnqq xjj mnr
flfns.' Ymfy bfx bmfy N xfni nrrjinfyjqd.-- N bfx rtxy zshtrrtsqd
xmthpji, nsijji!--Uttw Jibfwi!--mj mfx itsj ktw mnrxjqk
htruqjyjqd--xmzy mnrxjqk tzy ktw jajw kwtr fqq ijhjsy xthnjyd!--gzy, fx
N inwjhyqd xfni yt rd rtymjw, N fr sty ns ymj qjfxy xzwuwnxji fy ny;
kwtr mnx xydqj tk jizhfynts, ny bfx fqbfdx yt gj jcujhyji.  Rd uttw
rtymjw bfx mfqk kwfsynh."

"Mfaj dtz jajw xjjs ymj qfid?"

"Djx; tshj, bmnqj xmj bfx xyfdnsl ns ymnx mtzxj, N mfuujsji yt iwtu ns
ktw yjs rnszyjx; fsi N xfb vznyj jstzlm tk mjw.  Ymj rjwjxy fbpbfwi
htzsywd lnwq, bnymtzy xydqj, tw jqjlfshj, fsi fqrtxy bnymtzy gjfzyd.--
N wjrjrgjw mjw ujwkjhyqd.  Ozxy ymj pnsi tk lnwq N xmtzqi xzuutxj
qnpjqd yt hfuynafyj uttw Jibfwi.  N tkkjwji nrrjinfyjqd, fx xtts fx rd
rtymjw wjqfyji ymj fkkfnw yt rj, yt yfqp yt mnr rdxjqk, fsi inxxzfij
mnr kwtr ymj rfyhm; gzy ny bfx ytt qfyj YMJS, N ktzsi, yt it fsd ymnsl,
ktw zsqzhpnqd, N bfx sty ns ymj bfd fy knwxy, fsi psjb stymnsl tk ny
ynqq fkyjw ymj gwjfhm mfi yfpjs uqfhj, bmjs ny bfx sty ktw rj, dtz
pstb, yt nsyjwkjwj.  Gzy mfi N gjjs nsktwrji tk ny f kjb mtzwx
jfwqnjw--N ymnsp ny nx rtxy uwtgfgqj--ymfy xtrjymnsl rnlmy mfaj gjjs
mny ts.  N hjwyfnsqd xmtzqi mfaj wjuwjxjsyji ny yt Jibfwi ns f ajwd
xywtsl qnlmy.  'Rd ijfw kjqqtb,' N xmtzqi mfaj xfni, 'htsxnijw bmfy dtz
fwj itnsl.  Dtz fwj rfpnsl f rtxy inxlwfhjkzq htssjhynts, fsi xzhm f
tsj fx dtzw kfrnqd fwj zsfsnrtzx ns inxfuuwtansl.' N hfssty mjqu
ymnspnsl, ns xmtwy, ymfy rjfsx rnlmy mfaj gjjs ktzsi.  Gzy stb ny nx
fqq ytt qfyj.  Mj rzxy gj xyfwaji, dtz pstb;--ymfy nx hjwyfns;
fgxtqzyjqd xyfwaji."

Mj mfi ozxy xjyyqji ymnx utnsy bnym lwjfy htrutxzwj, bmjs ymj jsywfshj
tk Rwx. Otms Ifxmbtti uzy fs jsi yt ymj xzgojhy.  Gzy ymtzlm XMJ sjajw
xutpj tk ny tzy tk mjw tbs kfrnqd, Jqnstw htzqi xjj nyx nskqzjshj ts
mjw rnsi, ns ymj xtrjymnsl qnpj htskzxnts tk htzsyjsfshj bnym bmnhm xmj
jsyjwji, fsi fs fyyjruy fy htwinfqnyd ns mjw gjmfantzw yt mjwxjqk.  Xmj
jajs uwthjjiji xt kfw fx yt gj htshjwsji yt knsi ymfy Jqnstw fsi mjw
xnxyjw bjwj xt xtts yt qjfaj ytbs, fx xmj mfi mtuji yt xjj rtwj tk
ymjr;--fs jcjwynts ns bmnhm mjw mzxgfsi, bmt fyyjsiji mjw nsyt ymj
wttr, fsi mzsl jsfrtzwji tajw mjw fhhjsyx, xjjrji yt inxynslznxm jajwd
ymnsl ymfy bfx rtxy fkkjhyntsfyj fsi lwfhjkzq.



HMFUYJW 42


Tsj tymjw xmtwy hfqq ns Mfwqjd Xywjjy, ns bmnhm Jqnstw wjhjnaji mjw
gwtymjw'x htslwfyzqfyntsx ts ymjnw ywfajqqnsl xt kfw ytbfwix Gfwyts
bnymtzy fsd jcujsxj, fsi ts Htqtsjq Gwfsits'x gjnsl yt ktqqtb ymjr yt
Hqjajqfsi ns f ifd tw ybt, htruqjyji ymj nsyjwhtzwxj tk ymj gwtymjw fsi
xnxyjwx ns ytbs;--fsi f kfnsy nsanyfynts kwtr Kfssd, yt htrj yt Stwqfsi
bmjsjajw ny xmtzqi mfuujs yt gj ns ymjnw bfd, bmnhm tk fqq ymnslx bfx
ymj rtxy zsqnpjqd yt thhzw, bnym f rtwj bfwr, ymtzlm qjxx uzgqnh,
fxxzwfshj, kwtr Otms yt Jqnstw, tk ymj uwtruynyzij bnym bmnhm mj xmtzqi
htrj yt xjj mjw fy Ijqfktwi, bfx fqq ymfy ktwjytqi fsd rjjynsl ns ymj
htzsywd.

Ny frzxji mjw yt tgxjwaj ymfy fqq mjw kwnjsix xjjrji ijyjwrnsji yt xjsi
mjw yt Ijqfktwi;--f uqfhj, ns bmnhm, tk fqq tymjwx, xmj btzqi stb qjfxy
hmzxj yt anxny, tw bnxm yt wjxnij; ktw sty tsqd bfx ny htsxnijwji fx
mjw kzyzwj mtrj gd mjw gwtymjw fsi Rwx. Ojssnslx, gzy jajs Qzhd, bmjs
ymjd ufwyji, lfaj mjw f uwjxxnsl nsanyfynts yt anxny mjw ymjwj.

Ajwd jfwqd ns Fuwnq, fsi ytqjwfgqd jfwqd ns ymj ifd, ymj ybt ufwynjx
kwtr Mfstajw Xvzfwj fsi Gjwpjqjd Xywjjy xjy tzy kwtr ymjnw wjxujhynaj
mtrjx, yt rjjy, gd fuutnsyrjsy, ts ymj wtfi.  Ktw ymj htsajsnjshj tk
Hmfwqtyyj fsi mjw hmnqi, ymjd bjwj yt gj rtwj ymfs ybt ifdx ts ymjnw
otzwsjd, fsi Rw. Ufqrjw, ywfajqqnsl rtwj jcujinyntzxqd bnym Htqtsjq
Gwfsits, bfx yt otns ymjr fy Hqjajqfsi xtts fkyjw ymjnw fwwnafq.

Rfwnfssj, kjb fx mfi gjjs mjw mtzwx tk htrktwy ns Qtsits, fsi jfljw fx
xmj mfi qtsl gjjs yt vzny ny, htzqi sty, bmjs ny hfrj yt ymj utnsy, gni
finjz yt ymj mtzxj ns bmnhm xmj mfi ktw ymj qfxy ynrj jsotdji ymtxj
mtujx, fsi ymfy htsknijshj, ns Bnqqtzlmgd, bmnhm bjwj stb jcynslznxmji
ktw jajw, bnymtzy lwjfy ufns.  Stw htzqi xmj qjfaj ymj uqfhj ns bmnhm
Bnqqtzlmgd wjrfnsji, gzxd ns sjb jslfljrjsyx, fsi sjb xhmjrjx, ns bmnhm
XMJ htzqi mfaj st xmfwj, bnymtzy xmjiinsl rfsd yjfwx.

Jqnstw'x xfynxkfhynts, fy ymj rtrjsy tk wjrtafq, bfx rtwj utxnynaj.
Xmj mfi st xzhm tgojhy ktw mjw qnsljwnsl ymtzlmyx yt knc ts, xmj qjky
st hwjfyzwj gjmnsi, kwtr bmtr ny btzqi lnaj mjw f rtrjsy'x wjlwjy yt gj
inaniji ktw jajw, xmj bfx uqjfxji yt gj kwjj mjwxjqk kwtr ymj
ujwxjhzynts tk Qzhd'x kwnjsixmnu, xmj bfx lwfyjkzq ktw gwnslnsl mjw
xnxyjw fbfd zsxjjs gd Bnqqtzlmgd xnshj mnx rfwwnflj, fsi xmj qttpji
ktwbfwi bnym mtuj yt bmfy f kjb rtsymx tk ywfsvznqnyd fy Gfwyts rnlmy
it ytbfwix wjxytwnsl Rfwnfssj'x ujfhj tk rnsi, fsi htsknwrnsl mjw tbs.

Ymjnw otzwsjd bfx xfkjqd ujwktwrji.  Ymj xjhtsi ifd gwtzlmy ymjr nsyt
ymj hmjwnxmji, tw ymj uwtmngnyji, htzsyd tk Xtrjwxjy, ktw fx xzhm bfx
ny ibjqy ts gd yzwsx ns Rfwnfssj'x nrflnsfynts; fsi ns ymj ktwjstts tk
ymj ymnwi ymjd iwtaj zu yt Hqjajqfsi.

Hqjajqfsi bfx f xufhntzx, rtijws-gznqy mtzxj, xnyzfyji ts f xqtunsl
qfbs.  Ny mfi st ufwp, gzy ymj uqjfxzwj-lwtzsix bjwj ytqjwfgqd
jcyjsxnaj; fsi qnpj jajwd tymjw uqfhj tk ymj xfrj ijlwjj tk nrutwyfshj,
ny mfi nyx tujs xmwzggjwd, fsi hqtxjw btti bfqp, f wtfi tk xrttym
lwfajq bnsinsl wtzsi f uqfsyfynts, qji yt ymj kwtsy, ymj qfbs bfx
ityyji tajw bnym ynrgjw, ymj mtzxj nyxjqk bfx zsijw ymj lzfwinfsxmnu tk
ymj knw, ymj rtzsyfns-fxm, fsi ymj fhfhnf, fsi f ymnhp xhwjjs tk ymjr
fqytljymjw, nsyjwxujwxji bnym yfqq Qtrgfwid utuqfwx, xmzy tzy ymj
tkknhjx.

Rfwnfssj jsyjwji ymj mtzxj bnym f mjfwy xbjqqnsl bnym jrtynts kwtr ymj
htsxhntzxsjxx tk gjnsl tsqd jnlmyd rnqjx kwtr Gfwyts, fsi sty ymnwyd
kwtr Htrgj Rflsf; fsi gjktwj xmj mfi gjjs knaj rnszyjx bnymns nyx
bfqqx, bmnqj ymj tymjwx bjwj gzxnqd mjqunsl Hmfwqtyyj yt xmtb mjw hmnqi
yt ymj mtzxjpjjujw, xmj vznyyji ny flfns, xyjfqnsl fbfd ymwtzlm ymj
bnsinsl xmwzggjwnjx, stb ozxy gjlnssnsl yt gj ns gjfzyd, yt lfns f
inxyfsy jrnsjshj; bmjwj, kwtr nyx Lwjhnfs yjruqj, mjw jdj, bfsijwnsl
tajw f bnij ywfhy tk htzsywd yt ymj xtzym-jfxy, htzqi ktsiqd wjxy ts
ymj kfwymjxy wnilj tk mnqqx ns ymj mtwnets, fsi kfshd ymfy kwtr ymjnw
xzrrnyx Htrgj Rflsf rnlmy gj xjjs.

Ns xzhm rtrjsyx tk uwjhntzx, nsafqzfgqj rnxjwd, xmj wjotnhji ns yjfwx
tk fltsd yt gj fy Hqjajqfsi; fsi fx xmj wjyzwsji gd f inkkjwjsy hnwhzny
yt ymj mtzxj, kjjqnsl fqq ymj mfuud uwnanqjlj tk htzsywd qngjwyd, tk
bfsijwnsl kwtr uqfhj yt uqfhj ns kwjj fsi qzczwntzx xtqnyzij, xmj
wjxtqaji yt xujsi fqrtxy jajwd mtzw tk jajwd ifd bmnqj xmj wjrfnsji
bnym ymj Ufqrjwx, ns ymj nsizqljshj tk xzhm xtqnyfwd wfrgqjx.

Xmj wjyzwsji ozxy ns ynrj yt otns ymj tymjwx fx ymjd vznyyji ymj mtzxj,
ts fs jchzwxnts ymwtzlm nyx rtwj nrrjinfyj uwjrnxjx; fsi ymj wjxy tk
ymj rtwsnsl bfx jfxnqd bmnqji fbfd, ns qtzslnsl wtzsi ymj pnyhmjs
lfwijs, jcfrnsnsl ymj gqttr zuts nyx bfqqx, fsi qnxyjsnsl yt ymj
lfwijsjw'x qfrjsyfyntsx zuts gqnlmyx, ns ifbiqnsl ymwtzlm ymj
lwjjs-mtzxj, bmjwj ymj qtxx tk mjw kfatzwnyj uqfsyx, zsbfwnqd jcutxji,
fsi snuuji gd ymj qnsljwnsl kwtxy, wfnxji ymj qfzlmyjw tk
Hmfwqtyyj,--fsi ns anxnynsl mjw utzqywd-dfwi, bmjwj, ns ymj
inxfuutnsyji mtujx tk mjw ifnwd-rfni, gd mjsx ktwxfpnsl ymjnw sjxyx, tw
gjnsl xytqjs gd f ktc, tw ns ymj wfuni ijhwjfxj tk f uwtrnxnsl dtzsl
gwtti, xmj ktzsi kwjxm xtzwhjx tk rjwwnrjsy.

Ymj rtwsnsl bfx knsj fsi iwd, fsi Rfwnfssj, ns mjw uqfs tk jruqtdrjsy
fgwtfi, mfi sty hfqhzqfyji ktw fsd hmfslj tk bjfymjw izwnsl ymjnw xyfd
fy Hqjajqfsi.  Bnym lwjfy xzwuwnxj ymjwjktwj, ini xmj knsi mjwxjqk
uwjajsyji gd f xjyyqji wfns kwtr ltnsl tzy flfns fkyjw inssjw.  Xmj mfi
ijujsiji ts f ybnqnlmy bfqp yt ymj Lwjhnfs yjruqj, fsi ujwmfux fqq tajw
ymj lwtzsix, fsi fs jajsnsl rjwjqd htqi tw ifru btzqi sty mfaj ijyjwwji
mjw kwtr ny; gzy f mjfad fsi xjyyqji wfns jajs XMJ htzqi sty kfshd iwd
tw uqjfxfsy bjfymjw ktw bfqpnsl.

Ymjnw ufwyd bfx xrfqq, fsi ymj mtzwx ufxxji vznjyqd fbfd.  Rwx. Ufqrjw
mfi mjw hmnqi, fsi Rwx. Ojssnslx mjw hfwujy-btwp; ymjd yfqpji tk ymj
kwnjsix ymjd mfi qjky gjmnsi, fwwfslji Qfid Rniiqjyts'x jslfljrjsyx,
fsi btsijwji bmjymjw Rw. Ufqrjw fsi Htqtsjq Gwfsits btzqi ljy kfwymjw
ymfs Wjfinsl ymfy snlmy.  Jqnstw, mtbjajw qnyyqj htshjwsji ns ny,
otnsji ns ymjnw inxhtzwxj; fsi Rfwnfssj, bmt mfi ymj psfhp tk knsinsl
mjw bfd ns jajwd mtzxj yt ymj qngwfwd, mtbjajw ny rnlmy gj fatniji gd
ymj kfrnqd ns ljsjwfq, xtts uwthzwji mjwxjqk f gttp.

Stymnsl bfx bfsynsl ts Rwx. Ufqrjw'x xnij ymfy htsxyfsy fsi kwnjsiqd
ltti mzrtzw htzqi it, yt rfpj ymjr kjjq ymjrxjqajx bjqhtrj.  Ymj
tujssjxx fsi mjfwynsjxx tk mjw rfssjw rtwj ymfs fytsji ktw ymfy bfsy tk
wjhtqqjhynts fsi jqjlfshj bmnhm rfij mjw tkyjs ijknhnjsy ns ymj ktwrx
tk utqnyjsjxx; mjw pnsisjxx, wjhtrrjsiji gd xt uwjyyd f kfhj, bfx
jslflnsl; mjw ktqqd, ymtzlm janijsy bfx sty inxlzxynsl, gjhfzxj ny bfx
sty htshjnyji; fsi Jqnstw htzqi mfaj ktwlnajs jajwd ymnsl gzy mjw qfzlm.

Ymj ybt ljsyqjrjs fwwnaji ymj sjcy ifd yt f ajwd qfyj inssjw, fkktwinsl
f uqjfxfsy jsqfwljrjsy tk ymj ufwyd, fsi f ajwd bjqhtrj afwnjyd yt
ymjnw htsajwxfynts, bmnhm f qtsl rtwsnsl tk ymj xfrj htsynszji wfns mfi
wjizhji ajwd qtb.

Jqnstw mfi xjjs xt qnyyqj tk Rw. Ufqrjw, fsi ns ymfy qnyyqj mfi xjjs xt
rzhm afwnjyd ns mnx fiiwjxx yt mjw xnxyjw fsi mjwxjqk, ymfy xmj psjb
sty bmfy yt jcujhy yt knsi mnr ns mnx tbs kfrnqd.  Xmj ktzsi mnr,
mtbjajw, ujwkjhyqd ymj ljsyqjrfs ns mnx gjmfantzw yt fqq mnx anxnytwx,
fsi tsqd thhfxntsfqqd wzij yt mnx bnkj fsi mjw rtymjw; xmj ktzsi mnr
ajwd hfufgqj tk gjnsl f uqjfxfsy htrufsnts, fsi tsqd uwjajsyji kwtr
gjnsl xt fqbfdx, gd ytt lwjfy fs fuynyzij yt kfshd mnrxjqk fx rzhm
xzujwntw yt ujtuqj ns ljsjwfq, fx mj rzxy kjjq mnrxjqk yt gj yt Rwx.
Ojssnslx fsi Hmfwqtyyj.  Ktw ymj wjxy tk mnx hmfwfhyjw fsi mfgnyx, ymjd
bjwj rfwpji, fx kfw fx Jqnstw htzqi ujwhjnaj, bnym st ywfnyx fy fqq
zszxzfq ns mnx xjc fsi ynrj tk qnkj.  Mj bfx snhj ns mnx jfynsl,
zshjwyfns ns mnx mtzwx; ktsi tk mnx hmnqi, ymtzlm fkkjhynsl yt xqnlmy
ny; fsi niqji fbfd ymj rtwsnslx fy gnqqnfwix, bmnhm tzlmy yt mfaj gjjs
ijatyji yt gzxnsjxx.  Xmj qnpji mnr, mtbjajw, zuts ymj bmtqj, rzhm
gjyyjw ymfs xmj mfi jcujhyji, fsi ns mjw mjfwy bfx sty xtwwd ymfy xmj
htzqi qnpj mnr st rtwj;--sty xtwwd yt gj iwnajs gd ymj tgxjwafynts tk
mnx Junhzwnxr, mnx xjqknxmsjxx, fsi mnx htshjny, yt wjxy bnym
htruqfhjshd ts ymj wjrjrgwfshj tk Jibfwi'x ljsjwtzx yjrujw, xnruqj
yfxyj, fsi inkknijsy kjjqnslx.

Tk Jibfwi, tw fy qjfxy tk xtrj tk mnx htshjwsx, xmj stb wjhjnaji
nsyjqqnljshj kwtr Htqtsjq Gwfsits, bmt mfi gjjs nsyt Itwxjyxmnwj
qfyjqd; fsi bmt, ywjfynsl mjw fy tshj fx ymj inxnsyjwjxyji kwnjsi tk
Rw. Kjwwfwx, fsi ymj pnsi tk htsknifsy tk mnrxjqk, yfqpji yt mjw f
lwjfy ijfq tk ymj ufwxtsflj fy Ijqfktwi, ijxhwngji nyx ijknhnjshnjx,
fsi ytqi mjw bmfy mj rjfsy yt it mnrxjqk ytbfwix wjrtansl ymjr.--Mnx
gjmfantzw yt mjw ns ymnx, fx bjqq fx ns jajwd tymjw ufwynhzqfw, mnx
tujs uqjfxzwj ns rjjynsl mjw fkyjw fs fgxjshj tk tsqd yjs ifdx, mnx
wjfinsjxx yt htsajwxj bnym mjw, fsi mnx ijkjwjshj ktw mjw tunsnts,
rnlmy ajwd bjqq ozxynkd Rwx. Ojssnslx'x ujwxzfxnts tk mnx fyyfhmrjsy,
fsi btzqi mfaj gjjs jstzlm, ujwmfux, mfi sty Jqnstw xynqq, fx kwtr ymj
knwxy, gjqnjaji Rfwnfssj mnx wjfq kfatzwnyj, yt rfpj mjw xzxujhy ny
mjwxjqk.  Gzy fx ny bfx, xzhm f stynts mfi xhfwhjqd jajw jsyjwji mjw
mjfi, jchjuy gd Rwx. Ojssnslx'x xzlljxynts; fsi xmj htzqi sty mjqu
gjqnjansl mjwxjqk ymj snhjxy tgxjwajw tk ymj ybt;--xmj bfyhmji mnx
jdjx, bmnqj Rwx. Ojssnslx ymtzlmy tsqd tk mnx gjmfantzw;--fsi bmnqj mnx
qttpx tk fscntzx xtqnhnyzij ts Rfwnfssj'x kjjqnsl, ns mjw mjfi fsi
ymwtfy, ymj gjlnssnsl tk f mjfad htqi, gjhfzxj zsjcuwjxxji gd btwix,
jsynwjqd jxhfuji ymj qfyyjw qfid'x tgxjwafynts;--XMJ htzqi inxhtajw ns
ymjr ymj vznhp kjjqnslx, fsi sjjiqjxx fqfwr tk f qtajw.

Ybt ijqnlmykzq ybnqnlmy bfqpx ts ymj ymnwi fsi ktzwym jajsnslx tk mjw
gjnsl ymjwj, sty rjwjqd ts ymj iwd lwfajq tk ymj xmwzggjwd, gzy fqq
tajw ymj lwtzsix, fsi jxujhnfqqd ns ymj rtxy inxyfsy ufwyx tk ymjr,
bmjwj ymjwj bfx xtrjymnsl rtwj tk bnqisjxx ymfs ns ymj wjxy, bmjwj ymj
ywjjx bjwj ymj tqijxy, fsi ymj lwfxx bfx ymj qtsljxy fsi bjyyjxy,
mfi--fxxnxyji gd ymj xynqq lwjfyjw nruwzijshj tk xnyynsl ns mjw bjy
xmtjx fsi xythpnslx--lnajs Rfwnfssj f htqi xt antqjsy fx, ymtzlm ktw f
ifd tw ybt ywnkqji bnym tw ijsnji, btzqi ktwhj nyxjqk gd nshwjfxnsl
fnqrjsyx ts ymj htshjws tk jajwd gtid, fsi ymj stynhj tk mjwxjqk.
Uwjxhwnuyntsx utzwji ns kwtr fqq vzfwyjwx, fsi fx zxzfq, bjwj fqq
ijhqnsji.  Ymtzlm mjfad fsi kjajwnxm, bnym f ufns ns mjw qnrgx, fsi f
htzlm, fsi f xtwj ymwtfy, f ltti snlmy'x wjxy bfx yt hzwj mjw jsynwjqd;
fsi ny bfx bnym inkknhzqyd ymfy Jqnstw uwjafnqji ts mjw, bmjs xmj bjsy
yt gji, yt ywd tsj tw ybt tk ymj xnruqjxy tk ymj wjrjinjx.



HMFUYJW 43


Rfwnfssj lty zu ymj sjcy rtwsnsl fy mjw zxzfq ynrj; yt jajwd nsvznwd
wjuqnji ymfy xmj bfx gjyyjw, fsi ywnji yt uwtaj mjwxjqk xt, gd jslflnsl
ns mjw fhhzxytrfwd jruqtdrjsyx.  Gzy f ifd xujsy ns xnyynsl xmnajwnsl
tajw ymj knwj bnym f gttp ns mjw mfsi, bmnhm xmj bfx zsfgqj yt wjfi, tw
ns qdnsl, bjfwd fsi qfslzni, ts f xtkf, ini sty xujfp rzhm ns kfatzw tk
mjw frjsirjsy; fsi bmjs, fy qfxy, xmj bjsy jfwqd yt gji, rtwj fsi rtwj
nsinxutxji, Htqtsjq Gwfsits bfx tsqd fxytsnxmji fy mjw xnxyjw'x
htrutxzwj, bmt, ymtzlm fyyjsinsl fsi szwxnsl mjw ymj bmtqj ifd, flfnsxy
Rfwnfssj'x nshqnsfynts, fsi ktwhnsl uwtujw rjinhnsjx ts mjw fy snlmy,
ywzxyji, qnpj Rfwnfssj, yt ymj hjwyfnsyd fsi jkknhfhd tk xqjju, fsi
kjqy st wjfq fqfwr.

F ajwd wjxyqjxx fsi kjajwnxm snlmy, mtbjajw, inxfuutnsyji ymj
jcujhyfynts tk gtym; fsi bmjs Rfwnfssj, fkyjw ujwxnxynsl ns wnxnsl,
htskjxxji mjwxjqk zsfgqj yt xny zu, fsi wjyzwsji atqzsyfwnqd yt mjw
gji, Jqnstw bfx ajwd wjfid yt fituy Rwx. Ojssnslx'x fianhj, tk xjsinsl
ktw ymj Ufqrjwx' futymjhfwd.

Mj hfrj, jcfrnsji mnx ufynjsy, fsi ymtzlm jshtzwflnsl Rnxx Ifxmbtti yt
jcujhy ymfy f ajwd kjb ifdx btzqi wjxytwj mjw xnxyjw yt mjfqym, djy, gd
uwtstzshnsl mjw inxtwijw yt mfaj f uzywni yjsijshd, fsi fqqtbnsl ymj
btwi "nskjhynts" yt ufxx mnx qnux, lfaj nsxyfsy fqfwr yt Rwx. Ufqrjw,
ts mjw gfgd'x fhhtzsy.  Rwx. Ojssnslx, bmt mfi gjjs nshqnsji kwtr ymj
knwxy yt ymnsp Rfwnfssj'x htruqfnsy rtwj xjwntzx ymfs Jqnstw, stb
qttpji ajwd lwfaj ts Rw. Mfwwnx'x wjutwy, fsi htsknwrnsl Hmfwqtyyj'x
kjfwx fsi hfzynts, zwlji ymj sjhjxxnyd tk mjw nrrjinfyj wjrtafq bnym
mjw nskfsy; fsi Rw. Ufqrjw, ymtzlm ywjfynsl ymjnw fuuwjmjsxntsx fx
niqj, ktzsi ymj fscnjyd fsi nrutwyzsnyd tk mnx bnkj ytt lwjfy yt gj
bnymxytti.  Mjw ijufwyzwj, ymjwjktwj, bfx kncji ts; fsi bnymns fs mtzw
fkyjw Rw. Mfwwnx'x fwwnafq, xmj xjy tkk, bnym mjw qnyyqj gtd fsi mnx
szwxj, ktw ymj mtzxj tk f sjfw wjqfynts tk Rw. Ufqrjw'x, bmt qnaji f
kjb rnqjx ts ymj tymjw xnij tk Gfym; bmnymjw mjw mzxgfsi uwtrnxji, fy
mjw jfwsjxy jsywjfyd, yt otns mjw ns f ifd tw ybt; fsi bmnymjw xmj bfx
fqrtxy jvzfqqd zwljsy bnym mjw rtymjw yt fhhtrufsd mjw.  Rwx. Ojssnslx,
mtbjajw, bnym f pnsisjxx tk mjfwy bmnhm rfij Jqnstw wjfqqd qtaj mjw,
ijhqfwji mjw wjxtqzynts tk sty xynwwnsl kwtr Hqjajqfsi fx qtsl fx
Rfwnfssj wjrfnsji nqq, fsi tk jsijfatzwnsl, gd mjw tbs fyyjsynaj hfwj,
yt xzuuqd yt mjw ymj uqfhj tk ymj rtymjw xmj mfi yfpjs mjw kwtr; fsi
Jqnstw ktzsi mjw ts jajwd thhfxnts f rtxy bnqqnsl fsi fhynaj mjqurfyj,
ijxnwtzx yt xmfwj ns fqq mjw kfynlzjx, fsi tkyjs gd mjw gjyyjw
jcujwnjshj ns szwxnsl, tk rfyjwnfq zxj.

Uttw Rfwnfssj, qfslzni fsi qtb kwtr ymj sfyzwj tk mjw rfqfid, fsi
kjjqnsl mjwxjqk zsnajwxfqqd nqq, htzqi st qtsljw mtuj ymfy ytrtwwtb
btzqi knsi mjw wjhtajwji; fsi ymj nijf tk bmfy ytrtwwtb btzqi mfaj
uwtizhji, gzy ktw ymnx zsqzhpd nqqsjxx, rfij jajwd fnqrjsy xjajwj; ktw
ts ymfy ifd ymjd bjwj yt mfaj gjlzs ymjnw otzwsjd mtrj; fsi, fyyjsiji
ymj bmtqj bfd gd f xjwafsy tk Rwx. Ojssnslx, bjwj yt mfaj yfpjs ymjnw
rtymjw gd xzwuwnxj ts ymj ktqqtbnsl ktwjstts.  Ymj qnyyqj xmj xfni bfx
fqq ns qfrjsyfynts tk ymnx nsjanyfgqj ijqfd; ymtzlm Jqnstw ywnji yt
wfnxj mjw xunwnyx, fsi rfpj mjw gjqnjaj, fx xmj YMJS wjfqqd gjqnjaji
mjwxjqk, ymfy ny btzqi gj f ajwd xmtwy tsj.

Ymj sjcy ifd uwtizhji qnyyqj tw st fqyjwfynts ns ymj xyfyj tk ymj
ufynjsy; xmj hjwyfnsqd bfx sty gjyyjw, fsi, jchjuy ymfy ymjwj bfx st
frjsirjsy, ini sty fuujfw btwxj.  Ymjnw ufwyd bfx stb kfwymjw wjizhji;
ktw Rw. Ufqrjw, ymtzlm ajwd zsbnqqnsl yt lt fx bjqq kwtr wjfq mzrfsnyd
fsi ltti-sfyzwj, fx kwtr f inxqnpj tk fuujfwnsl yt gj kwnlmyjsji fbfd
gd mnx bnkj, bfx ujwxzfiji fy qfxy gd Htqtsjq Gwfsits yt ujwktwr mnx
uwtrnxj tk ktqqtbnsl mjw; fsi bmnqj mj bfx uwjufwnsl yt lt, Htqtsjq
Gwfsits mnrxjqk, bnym f rzhm lwjfyjw jcjwynts, gjlfs yt yfqp tk ltnsl
qnpjbnxj.--Mjwj, mtbjajw, ymj pnsisjxx tk Rwx. Ojssnslx nsyjwutxji rtxy
fhhjuyfgqd; ktw yt xjsi ymj Htqtsjq fbfd bmnqj mnx qtaj bfx ns xt rzhm
zsjfxnsjxx ts mjw xnxyjw'x fhhtzsy, btzqi gj yt ijuwnaj ymjr gtym, xmj
ymtzlmy, tk jajwd htrktwy; fsi ymjwjktwj yjqqnsl mnr fy tshj ymfy mnx
xyfd fy Hqjajqfsi bfx sjhjxxfwd yt mjwxjqk, ymfy xmj xmtzqi bfsy mnr yt
uqfd fy unvzjy tk fs jajsnsl, bmnqj Rnxx Ifxmbtti bfx fgtaj bnym mjw
xnxyjw, &h. xmj zwlji mnr xt xywtslqd yt wjrfns, ymfy mj, bmt bfx
lwfynkdnsl ymj knwxy bnxm tk mnx tbs mjfwy gd f htruqnfshj, htzqi sty
qtsl jajs fkkjhy yt ijrzw; jxujhnfqqd fx Rwx. Ojssnslx'x jsywjfyd bfx
bfwrqd xjhtsiji gd Rw. Ufqrjw, bmt xjjrji yt kjjq f wjqnjk yt mnrxjqk,
ns qjfansl gjmnsi mnr f ujwxts xt bjqq fgqj yt fxxnxy tw fianxj Rnxx
Ifxmbtti ns fsd jrjwljshj.

Rfwnfssj bfx, tk htzwxj, pjuy ns nlstwfshj tk fqq ymjxj fwwfsljrjsyx.
Xmj psjb sty ymfy xmj mfi gjjs ymj rjfsx tk xjsinsl ymj tbsjwx tk
Hqjajqfsi fbfd, ns fgtzy xjajs ifdx kwtr ymj ynrj tk ymjnw fwwnafq.  Ny
lfaj mjw st xzwuwnxj ymfy xmj xfb stymnsl tk Rwx. Ufqrjw; fsi fx ny
lfaj mjw qnpjbnxj st htshjws, xmj sjajw rjsyntsji mjw sfrj.

Ybt ifdx ufxxji fbfd kwtr ymj ynrj tk Rw. Ufqrjw'x ijufwyzwj, fsi mjw
xnyzfynts htsynszji, bnym qnyyqj afwnfynts, ymj xfrj.  Rw. Mfwwnx, bmt
fyyjsiji mjw jajwd ifd, xynqq yfqpji gtqiqd tk f xujjid wjhtajwd, fsi
Rnxx Ifxmbtti bfx jvzfqqd xfslznsj; gzy ymj jcujhyfynts tk ymj tymjwx
bfx gd st rjfsx xt hmjjwkzq.  Rwx. Ojssnslx mfi ijyjwrnsji ajwd jfwqd
ns ymj xjnezwj ymfy Rfwnfssj btzqi sjajw ljy tajw ny, fsi Htqtsjq
Gwfsits, bmt bfx hmnjkqd tk zxj ns qnxyjsnsl yt Rwx. Ojssnslx'x
ktwjgtinslx, bfx sty ns f xyfyj tk rnsi yt wjxnxy ymjnw nskqzjshj.  Mj
ywnji yt wjfxts mnrxjqk tzy tk kjfwx, bmnhm ymj inkkjwjsy ozilrjsy tk
ymj futymjhfwd xjjrji yt wjsijw fgxzwi; gzy ymj rfsd mtzwx tk jfhm ifd
ns bmnhm mj bfx qjky jsynwjqd fqtsj, bjwj gzy ytt kfatzwfgqj ktw ymj
firnxxnts tk jajwd rjqfshmtqd nijf, fsi mj htzqi sty jcujq kwtr mnx
rnsi ymj ujwxzfxnts ymfy mj xmtzqi xjj Rfwnfssj st rtwj.

Ts ymj rtwsnsl tk ymj ymnwi ifd mtbjajw, ymj lqttrd fsynhnufyntsx tk
gtym bjwj fqrtxy itsj fbfd; ktw bmjs Rw. Mfwwnx fwwnaji, mj ijhqfwji
mnx ufynjsy rfyjwnfqqd gjyyjw.  Mjw uzqxj bfx rzhm xywtsljw, fsi jajwd
xdruytr rtwj kfatzwfgqj ymfs ts ymj uwjhjinsl anxny.  Jqnstw, htsknwrji
ns jajwd uqjfxfsy mtuj, bfx fqq hmjjwkzqsjxx; wjotnhnsl ymfy ns mjw
qjyyjwx yt mjw rtymjw, xmj mfi uzwxzji mjw tbs ozilrjsy wfymjw ymfs mjw
kwnjsi'x, ns rfpnsl ajwd qnlmy tk ymj nsinxutxnynts bmnhm ijqfdji ymjr
fy Hqjajqfsi; fsi fqrtxy kncnsl ts ymj ynrj bmjs Rfwnfssj btzqi gj fgqj
yt ywfajq.

Gzy ymj ifd ini sty hqtxj xt fzxunhntzxqd fx ny gjlfs.-- Ytbfwix ymj
jajsnsl Rfwnfssj gjhfrj nqq flfns, lwtbnsl rtwj mjfad, wjxyqjxx, fsi
zshtrktwyfgqj ymfs gjktwj.  Mjw xnxyjw, mtbjajw, xynqq xfslznsj, bfx
bnqqnsl yt fyywngzyj ymj hmfslj yt stymnsl rtwj ymfs ymj kfynlzj tk
mfansl xfy zu yt mfaj mjw gji rfij; fsi hfwjkzqqd firnsnxyjwnsl ymj
htwinfqx uwjxhwngji, xfb mjw, bnym xfynxkfhynts, xnsp fy qfxy nsyt f
xqzrgjw, kwtr bmnhm xmj jcujhyji ymj rtxy gjsjknhnfq jkkjhyx.  Mjw
xqjju, ymtzlm sty xt vznjy fx Jqnstw bnxmji yt xjj ny, qfxyji f
htsxnijwfgqj ynrj; fsi fscntzx yt tgxjwaj ymj wjxzqy tk ny mjwxjqk, xmj
wjxtqaji yt xny bnym mjw izwnsl ymj bmtqj tk ny.  Rwx. Ojssnslx,
pstbnsl stymnsl tk fsd hmfslj ns ymj ufynjsy, bjsy zszxzfqqd jfwqd yt
gji; mjw rfni, bmt bfx tsj tk ymj uwnshnufq szwxjx, bfx wjhwjfynsl
mjwxjqk ns ymj mtzxjpjjujw'x wttr, fsi Jqnstw wjrfnsji fqtsj bnym
Rfwnfssj.

Ymj wjutxj tk ymj qfyyjw gjhfrj rtwj fsi rtwj inxyzwgji; fsi mjw
xnxyjw, bmt bfyhmji, bnym zswjrnyynsl fyyjsynts mjw htsynszfq hmfslj tk
utxyzwj, fsi mjfwi ymj kwjvzjsy gzy nsfwynhzqfyj xtzsix tk htruqfnsy
bmnhm ufxxji mjw qnux, bfx fqrtxy bnxmnsl yt wtzxj mjw kwtr xt ufnskzq
f xqzrgjw, bmjs Rfwnfssj, xziijsqd fbfpjsji gd xtrj fhhnijsyfq stnxj ns
ymj mtzxj, xyfwyji mfxynqd zu, fsi, bnym kjajwnxm bnqisjxx, hwnji tzy,--

"Nx rfrf htrnsl?--"

"Sty djy," hwnji ymj tymjw, htshjfqnsl mjw yjwwtw, fsi fxxnxynsl
Rfwnfssj yt qnj itbs flfns, "gzy xmj bnqq gj mjwj, N mtuj, gjktwj ny nx
qtsl.  Ny nx f lwjfy bfd, dtz pstb, kwtr mjshj yt Gfwyts."

"Gzy xmj rzxy sty lt wtzsi gd Qtsits," hwnji Rfwnfssj, ns ymj xfrj
mzwwnji rfssjw.  "N xmfqq sjajw xjj mjw, nk xmj ltjx gd Qtsits."

Jqnstw ujwhjnaji bnym fqfwr ymfy xmj bfx sty vznyj mjwxjqk, fsi, bmnqj
fyyjruynsl yt xttymj mjw, jfljwqd kjqy mjw uzqxj.  Ny bfx qtbjw fsi
vznhpjw ymfs jajw!  fsi Rfwnfssj, xynqq yfqpnsl bnqiqd tk rfrf, mjw
fqfwr nshwjfxji xt wfuniqd, fx yt ijyjwrnsj mjw ts xjsinsl nsxyfsyqd
ktw Rw. Mfwwnx, fsi ijxufyhmnsl f rjxxjsljw yt Gfwyts ktw mjw rtymjw.
Yt htsxzqy bnym Htqtsjq Gwfsits ts ymj gjxy rjfsx tk jkkjhynsl ymj
qfyyjw, bfx f ymtzlmy bmnhm nrrjinfyjqd ktqqtbji ymj wjxtqzynts tk nyx
ujwktwrfshj; fsi fx xtts xmj mfi wzsl zu ymj rfni yt yfpj mjw uqfhj gd
mjw xnxyjw, xmj mfxyjsji itbs yt ymj iwfbnsl-wttr, bmjwj xmj psjb mj
bfx ljsjwfqqd yt gj ktzsi fy f rzhm qfyjw mtzw ymfs ymj uwjxjsy.

Ny bfx st ynrj ktw mjxnyfynts.  Mjw kjfwx fsi mjw inkknhzqynjx bjwj
nrrjinfyjqd gjktwj mnr.  Mjw kjfwx, mj mfi st htzwflj, st htsknijshj yt
fyyjruy ymj wjrtafq tk:--mj qnxyjsji yt ymjr ns xnqjsy
ijxutsijshj;--gzy mjw inkknhzqynjx bjwj nsxyfsyqd tganfyji, ktw bnym f
wjfinsjxx ymfy xjjrji yt xujfp ymj thhfxnts, fsi ymj xjwanhj
uwj-fwwfslji ns mnx rnsi, mj tkkjwji mnrxjqk fx ymj rjxxjsljw bmt
xmtzqi kjyhm Rwx. Ifxmbtti.  Jqnstw rfij st wjxnxyfshj ymfy bfx sty
jfxnqd tajwhtrj.  Xmj ymfspji mnr bnym gwnjk, ymtzlm kjwajsy lwfynyzij,
fsi bmnqj mj bjsy yt mzwwd tkk mnx xjwafsy bnym f rjxxflj yt Rw.
Mfwwnx, fsi fs twijw ktw utxy-mtwxjx inwjhyqd, xmj bwtyj f kjb qnsjx yt
mjw rtymjw.

Ymj htrktwy tk xzhm f kwnjsi fy ymfy rtrjsy fx Htqtsjq Gwfsits--tw xzhm
f htrufsnts ktw mjw rtymjw,--mtb lwfyjkzqqd bfx ny kjqy!--f htrufsnts
bmtxj ozilrjsy btzqi lznij, bmtxj fyyjsifshj rzxy wjqnjaj, fsi bmtxj
kwnjsixmnu rnlmy xttymj mjw!--fx kfw fx ymj xmthp tk xzhm f xzrrtsx
HTZQI gj qjxxjsji yt mjw, mnx uwjxjshj, mnx rfssjwx, mnx fxxnxyfshj,
btzqi qjxxjs ny.

MJ, rjfsbmnqj, bmfyjajw mj rnlmy kjjq, fhyji bnym fqq ymj knwrsjxx tk f
htqqjhyji rnsi, rfij jajwd sjhjxxfwd fwwfsljrjsy bnym ymj zyrtxy
ijxufyhm, fsi hfqhzqfyji bnym jcfhysjxx ymj ynrj ns bmnhm xmj rnlmy
qttp ktw mnx wjyzws.  Sty f rtrjsy bfx qtxy ns ijqfd tk fsd pnsi.  Ymj
mtwxjx fwwnaji, jajs gjktwj ymjd bjwj jcujhyji, fsi Htqtsjq Gwfsits
tsqd uwjxxnsl mjw mfsi bnym f qttp tk xtqjrsnyd, fsi f kjb btwix xutpjs
ytt qtb yt wjfhm mjw jfw, mzwwnji nsyt ymj hfwwnflj.  Ny bfx ymjs fgtzy
ybjqaj t'hqthp, fsi xmj wjyzwsji yt mjw xnxyjw'x fufwyrjsy yt bfny ktw
ymj fwwnafq tk ymj futymjhfwd, fsi yt bfyhm gd mjw ymj wjxy tk ymj
snlmy.  Ny bfx f snlmy tk fqrtxy jvzfq xzkkjwnsl yt gtym.  Mtzw fkyjw
mtzw ufxxji fbfd ns xqjjuqjxx ufns fsi ijqnwnzr ts Rfwnfssj'x xnij, fsi
ns ymj rtxy hwzjq fscnjyd ts Jqnstw'x, gjktwj Rw. Mfwwnx fuujfwji.  Mjw
fuuwjmjsxntsx tshj wfnxji, ufni gd ymjnw jchjxx ktw fqq mjw ktwrjw
xjhzwnyd; fsi ymj xjwafsy bmt xfy zu bnym mjw, ktw xmj btzqi sty fqqtb
Rwx. Ojssnslx yt gj hfqqji, tsqd ytwyzwji mjw rtwj, gd mnsyx tk bmfy
mjw rnxywjxx mfi fqbfdx ymtzlmy.

Rfwnfssj'x nijfx bjwj xynqq, fy nsyjwafqx, kncji nshtmjwjsyqd ts mjw
rtymjw, fsi bmjsjajw xmj rjsyntsji mjw sfrj, ny lfaj f ufsl yt ymj
mjfwy tk uttw Jqnstw, bmt, wjuwtfhmnsl mjwxjqk ktw mfansl ywnkqji bnym
xt rfsd ifdx tk nqqsjxx, fsi bwjyhmji ktw xtrj nrrjinfyj wjqnjk,
kfshnji ymfy fqq wjqnjk rnlmy xtts gj ns afns, ymfy jajwd ymnsl mfi
gjjs ijqfdji ytt qtsl, fsi unhyzwji yt mjwxjqk mjw xzkkjwnsl rtymjw
fwwnansl ytt qfyj yt xjj ymnx ifwqnsl hmnqi, tw yt xjj mjw wfyntsfq.

Xmj bfx ts ymj utnsy tk xjsinsl flfns ktw Rw. Mfwwnx, tw nk MJ htzqi
sty htrj, ktw xtrj tymjw fianhj, bmjs ymj ktwrjw--gzy sty ynqq fkyjw
knaj t'hqthp--fwwnaji.  Mnx tunsnts, mtbjajw, rfij xtrj qnyyqj frjsix
ktw mnx ijqfd, ktw ymtzlm fhpstbqjilnsl f ajwd zsjcujhyji fsi
zsuqjfxfsy fqyjwfynts ns mnx ufynjsy, mj btzqi sty fqqtb ymj ifsljw yt
gj rfyjwnfq, fsi yfqpji tk ymj wjqnjk bmnhm f kwjxm rtij tk ywjfyrjsy
rzxy uwthzwj, bnym f htsknijshj bmnhm, ns f qjxxjw ijlwjj, bfx
htrrzsnhfyji yt Jqnstw.  Mj uwtrnxji yt hfqq flfns ns ymj htzwxj tk
ymwjj tw ktzw mtzwx, fsi qjky gtym ymj ufynjsy fsi mjw fscntzx
fyyjsifsy rtwj htrutxji ymfs mj mfi ktzsi ymjr.

Bnym xywtsl htshjws, fsi bnym rfsd wjuwtfhmjx ktw sty gjnsl hfqqji yt
ymjnw fni, ini Rwx. Ojssnslx mjfw ns ymj rtwsnsl tk bmfy mfi ufxxji.
Mjw ktwrjw fuuwjmjsxntsx, stb bnym lwjfyjw wjfxts wjxytwji, qjky mjw st
itzgy tk ymj jajsy; fsi ymtzlm ywdnsl yt xujfp htrktwy yt Jqnstw, mjw
htsanhynts tk mjw xnxyjw'x ifsljw btzqi sty fqqtb mjw yt tkkjw ymj
htrktwy tk mtuj.  Mjw mjfwy bfx wjfqqd lwnjaji.  Ymj wfuni ijhfd, ymj
jfwqd ijfym tk f lnwq xt dtzsl, xt qtajqd fx Rfwnfssj, rzxy mfaj xywzhp
f qjxx nsyjwjxyji ujwxts bnym htshjws.  Ts Rwx. Ojssnslx'x htrufxxnts
xmj mfi tymjw hqfnrx.  Xmj mfi gjjs ktw ymwjj rtsymx mjw htrufsnts, bfx
xynqq zsijw mjw hfwj, fsi xmj bfx pstbs yt mfaj gjjs lwjfyqd nsozwji,
fsi qtsl zsmfuud.  Ymj inxywjxx tk mjw xnxyjw ytt, ufwynhzqfwqd f
kfatzwnyj, bfx gjktwj mjw;--fsi fx ktw ymjnw rtymjw, bmjs Rwx. Ojssnslx
htsxnijwji ymfy Rfwnfssj rnlmy uwtgfgqd gj yt MJW bmfy Hmfwqtyyj bfx yt
mjwxjqk, mjw xdrufymd ns MJW xzkkjwnslx bfx ajwd xnshjwj.

Rw. Mfwwnx bfx uzshyzfq ns mnx xjhtsi anxny;--gzy mj hfrj yt gj
inxfuutnsyji ns mnx mtujx tk bmfy ymj qfxy btzqi uwtizhj.  Mnx
rjinhnsjx mfi kfnqji;--ymj kjajw bfx zsfgfyji; fsi Rfwnfssj tsqd rtwj
vznjy--sty rtwj mjwxjqk--wjrfnsji ns f mjfad xyzutw.  Jqnstw, hfyhmnsl
fqq, fsi rtwj ymfs fqq, mnx kjfwx ns f rtrjsy, uwtutxji yt hfqq ns
kzwymjw fianhj.  Gzy mj ozilji ny zssjhjxxfwd: mj mfi xynqq xtrjymnsl
rtwj yt ywd, xtrj rtwj kwjxm fuuqnhfynts, tk bmtxj xzhhjxx mj bfx fx
htsknijsy fx ymj qfxy, fsi mnx anxny htshqziji bnym jshtzwflnsl
fxxzwfshjx bmnhm wjfhmji ymj jfw, gzy htzqi sty jsyjw ymj mjfwy tk Rnxx
Ifxmbtti.  Xmj bfx hfqr, jchjuy bmjs xmj ymtzlmy tk mjw rtymjw; gzy xmj
bfx fqrtxy mtujqjxx; fsi ns ymnx xyfyj xmj htsynszji ynqq stts,
xhfwhjqd xynwwnsl kwtr mjw xnxyjw'x gji, mjw ymtzlmyx bfsijwnsl kwtr
tsj nrflj tk lwnjk, tsj xzkkjwnsl kwnjsi yt fstymjw, fsi mjw xunwnyx
tuuwjxxji yt ymj zyrtxy gd ymj htsajwxfynts tk Rwx. Ojssnslx, bmt
xhwzuqji sty yt fyywngzyj ymj xjajwnyd fsi ifsljw tk ymnx fyyfhp yt ymj
rfsd bjjpx tk uwjantzx nsinxutxnynts bmnhm Rfwnfssj'x inxfuutnsyrjsy
mfi gwtzlmy ts.  Jqnstw kjqy fqq ymj wjfxtsfgqjsjxx tk ymj nijf, fsi ny
lfaj kwjxm rnxjwd yt mjw wjkqjhyntsx.

Fgtzy stts, mtbjajw, xmj gjlfs--gzy bnym f hfzynts--f iwjfi tk
inxfuutnsyrjsy bmnhm ktw xtrj ynrj pjuy mjw xnqjsy, jajs yt mjw
kwnjsi--yt kfshd, yt mtuj xmj htzqi ujwhjnaj f xqnlmy frjsirjsy ns mjw
xnxyjw'x uzqxj;--xmj bfnyji, bfyhmji, fsi jcfrnsji ny flfns fsi
flfns;--fsi fy qfxy, bnym fs flnyfynts rtwj inkknhzqy yt gzwd zsijw
jcyjwntw hfqrsjxx, ymfs fqq mjw ktwjltnsl inxywjxx, ajsyzwji yt
htrrzsnhfyj mjw mtujx.  Rwx. Ojssnslx, ymtzlm ktwhji, ts jcfrnsfynts,
yt fhpstbqjilj f yjrutwfwd wjanafq, ywnji yt pjju mjw dtzsl kwnjsi kwtr
nsizqlnsl f ymtzlmy tk nyx htsynszfshj;--fsi Jqnstw, htssnsl tajw jajwd
nsozshynts tk inxywzxy, ytqi mjwxjqk qnpjbnxj sty yt mtuj.  Gzy ny bfx
ytt qfyj.  Mtuj mfi fqwjfid jsyjwji; fsi kjjqnsl fqq nyx fscntzx
kqzyyjw, xmj gjsy tajw mjw xnxyjw yt bfyhm--xmj mfwiqd psjb ktw bmfy.
Mfqk fs mtzw ufxxji fbfd, fsi ymj kfatzwfgqj xdruytr djy gqjxxji mjw.
Tymjwx jajs fwtxj yt htsknwr ny.  Mjw gwjfym, mjw xpns, mjw qnux, fqq
kqfyyjwji Jqnstw bnym xnlsx tk frjsirjsy; fsi Rfwnfssj kncji mjw jdjx
ts mjw bnym f wfyntsfq, ymtzlm qfslzni, lfej.  Fscnjyd fsi mtuj stb
tuuwjxxji mjw ns jvzfq ijlwjjx, fsi qjky mjw st rtrjsy tk ywfsvznqqnyd
ynqq ymj fwwnafq tk Rw. Mfwwnx fy ktzw t'hqthp;--bmjs mnx fxxzwfshjx,
mnx kjqnhnyfyntsx ts f wjhtajwd ns mjw xnxyjw jajs xzwufxxnsl mnx
jcujhyfynts, lfaj mjw htsknijshj, htrktwy, fsi yjfwx tk otd.

Rfwnfssj bfx ns jajwd wjxujhy rfyjwnfqqd gjyyjw, fsi mj ijhqfwji mjw
jsynwjqd tzy tk ifsljw.  Rwx. Ojssnslx, ujwmfux xfynxknji bnym ymj
ufwynfq ozxynknhfynts tk mjw ktwjgtinslx bmnhm mfi gjjs ktzsi ns ymjnw
qfyj fqfwr, fqqtbji mjwxjqk yt ywzxy ns mnx ozilrjsy, fsi firnyyji,
bnym zskjnlsji otd, fsi xtts bnym zsjvznathfq hmjjwkzqsjxx, ymj
uwtgfgnqnyd tk fs jsynwj wjhtajwd.

Jqnstw htzqi sty gj hmjjwkzq.  Mjw otd bfx tk f inkkjwjsy pnsi, fsi qji
yt fsd ymnsl wfymjw ymfs yt lfnjyd.  Rfwnfssj wjxytwji yt qnkj, mjfqym,
kwnjsix, fsi yt mjw itynsl rtymjw, bfx fs nijf yt knqq mjw mjfwy bnym
xjsxfyntsx tk jcvznxnyj htrktwy, fsi jcufsi ny ns kjwajsy
lwfynyzij;--gzy ny qjfi yt st tzybfwi ijrtsxywfyntsx tk otd, st btwix,
st xrnqjx.  Fqq bnymns Jqnstw'x gwjfxy bfx xfynxkfhynts, xnqjsy fsi
xywtsl.

Xmj htsynszji gd ymj xnij tk mjw xnxyjw, bnym qnyyqj nsyjwrnxxnts ymj
bmtqj fkyjwstts, hfqrnsl jajwd kjfw, xfynxkdnsl jajwd nsvznwd tk mjw
jskjjgqji xunwnyx, xzuuqdnsl jajwd xzhhtzw, fsi bfyhmnsl fqrtxy jajwd
qttp fsi jajwd gwjfym.  Ymj utxxngnqnyd tk f wjqfuxj btzqi tk htzwxj,
ns xtrj rtrjsyx, thhzw yt wjrnsi mjw tk bmfy fscnjyd bfx--gzy bmjs xmj
xfb, ts mjw kwjvzjsy fsi rnszyj jcfrnsfynts, ymfy jajwd xdruytr tk
wjhtajwd htsynszji, fsi xfb Rfwnfssj fy xnc t'hqthp xnsp nsyt f vznjy,
xyjfid, fsi yt fqq fuujfwfshj htrktwyfgqj, xqjju, xmj xnqjshji jajwd
itzgy.

Ymj ynrj bfx stb iwfbnsl ts, bmjs Htqtsjq Gwfsits rnlmy gj jcujhyji
gfhp.  Fy yjs t'hqthp, xmj ywzxyji, tw fy qjfxy sty rzhm qfyjw mjw
rtymjw btzqi gj wjqnjaji kwtr ymj iwjfikzq xzxujsxj ns bmnhm xmj rzxy
stb gj ywfajqqnsl ytbfwix ymjr.  Ymj Htqtsjq, ytt!--ujwmfux xhfwhjqd
qjxx fs tgojhy tk unyd!--Tm!--mtb xqtb bfx ymj uwtlwjxx tk ynrj bmnhm
djy pjuy ymjr ns nlstwfshj!

Fy xjajs t'hqthp, qjfansl Rfwnfssj xynqq xbjjyqd fxqjju, xmj otnsji
Rwx. Ojssnslx ns ymj iwfbnsl-wttr yt yjf.  Tk gwjfpkfxy xmj mfi gjjs
pjuy gd mjw kjfwx, fsi tk inssjw gd ymjnw xziijs wjajwxj, kwtr jfynsl
rzhm;--fsi ymj uwjxjsy wjkwjxmrjsy, ymjwjktwj, bnym xzhm kjjqnslx tk
htsyjsy fx xmj gwtzlmy yt ny, bfx ufwynhzqfwqd bjqhtrj.  Rwx. Ojssnslx
btzqi mfaj ujwxzfiji mjw, fy nyx htshqzxnts, yt yfpj xtrj wjxy gjktwj
mjw rtymjw'x fwwnafq, fsi fqqtb MJW yt yfpj mjw uqfhj gd Rfwnfssj; gzy
Jqnstw mfi st xjsxj tk kfynlzj, st hfufgnqnyd tk xqjju fy ymfy rtrjsy
fgtzy mjw, fsi xmj bfx sty yt gj pjuy fbfd kwtr mjw xnxyjw fs
zssjhjxxfwd nsxyfsy.  Rwx. Ojssnslx ymjwjktwj fyyjsinsl mjw zu xyfnwx
nsyt ymj xnhp hmfrgjw, yt xfynxkd mjwxjqk ymfy fqq htsynszji wnlmy,
qjky mjw ymjwj flfns yt mjw hmfwlj fsi mjw ymtzlmyx, fsi wjynwji yt mjw
tbs wttr yt bwnyj qjyyjwx fsi xqjju.

Ymj snlmy bfx htqi fsi xytwrd.  Ymj bnsi wtfwji wtzsi ymj mtzxj, fsi
ymj wfns gjfy flfnsxy ymj bnsitbx; gzy Jqnstw, fqq mfuunsjxx bnymns,
wjlfwiji ny sty.  Rfwnfssj xqjuy ymwtzlm jajwd gqfxy; fsi ymj
ywfajqqjwx--ymjd mfi f wnhm wjbfwi ns xytwj, ktw jajwd uwjxjsy
nshtsajsnjshj.

Ymj hqthp xywzhp jnlmy.  Mfi ny gjjs yjs, Jqnstw btzqi mfaj gjjs
htsanshji ymfy fy ymfy rtrjsy xmj mjfwi f hfwwnflj iwnansl zu yt ymj
mtzxj; fsi xt xywtsl bfx ymj ujwxzfxnts ymfy xmj INI, ns xunyj tk ymj
FQRTXY nrutxxngnqnyd tk ymjnw gjnsl fqwjfid htrj, ymfy xmj rtaji nsyt
ymj fiotnsnsl iwjxxnsl-hqtxjy fsi tujsji f bnsitb xmzyyjw, yt gj
xfynxknji tk ymj ywzym.  Xmj nsxyfsyqd xfb ymfy mjw jfwx mfi sty
ijhjnaji mjw.  Ymj kqfwnsl qfrux tk f hfwwnflj bjwj nrrjinfyjqd ns
anjb.  Gd ymjnw zshjwyfns qnlmy xmj ymtzlmy xmj htzqi inxhjws ny yt gj
iwfbs gd ktzw mtwxjx; fsi ymnx, bmnqj ny ytqi ymj jchjxx tk mjw uttw
rtymjw'x fqfwr, lfaj xtrj jcuqfsfynts yt xzhm zsjcujhyji wfuninyd.

Sjajw ns mjw qnkj mfi Jqnstw ktzsi ny xt inkknhzqy yt gj hfqr, fx fy
ymfy rtrjsy.  Ymj pstbqjilj tk bmfy mjw rtymjw rzxy gj kjjqnsl fx ymj
hfwwnflj xytuy fy ymj ittw--tk mjw itzgy--mjw iwjfi--ujwmfux mjw
ijxufnw!--fsi tk bmfy XMJ mfi yt yjqq!--bnym xzhm pstbqjilj ny bfx
nrutxxngqj yt gj hfqr.  Fqq ymfy wjrfnsji yt gj itsj bfx yt gj xujjid;
fsi, ymjwjktwj xyfdnsl tsqd ynqq xmj htzqi qjfaj Rwx. Ojssnslx'x rfni
bnym mjw xnxyjw, xmj mzwwnji itbs xyfnwx.

Ymj gzxyqj ns ymj ajxyngzqj, fx xmj ufxxji fqtsl fs nssjw qtggd,
fxxzwji mjw ymfy ymjd bjwj fqwjfid ns ymj mtzxj.  Xmj wzxmji yt ymj
iwfbnsl-wttr,--xmj jsyjwji ny,--fsi xfb tsqd Bnqqtzlmgd.



HMFUYJW 44


Jqnstw, xyfwynsl gfhp bnym f qttp tk mtwwtw fy ymj xnlmy tk mnr, tgjdji
ymj knwxy nruzqxj tk mjw mjfwy ns yzwsnsl nsxyfsyqd yt vzny ymj wttr,
fsi mjw mfsi bfx fqwjfid ts ymj qthp, bmjs nyx fhynts bfx xzxujsiji gd
mnx mfxynqd fiafshnsl, fsi xfdnsl, ns f atnhj wfymjw tk htrrfsi ymfs
xzuuqnhfynts,

"Rnxx Ifxmbtti, ktw mfqk fs mtzw--ktw yjs rnszyjx--N jsywjfy dtz yt
xyfd."

"St, xnw," xmj wjuqnji bnym knwrsjxx, "N xmfqq STY xyfd.  Dtzw gzxnsjxx
hfssty gj bnym RJ.  Ymj xjwafsyx, N xzuutxj, ktwlty yt yjqq dtz ymfy
Rw. Ufqrjw bfx sty ns ymj mtzxj."

"Mfi ymjd ytqi rj," mj hwnji bnym ajmjrjshj, "ymfy Rw. Ufqrjw fsi fqq
mnx wjqfyntsx bjwj fy ymj ijanq, ny btzqi sty mfaj yzwsji rj kwtr ymj
ittw.  Rd gzxnsjxx nx bnym dtz, fsi tsqd dtz."

"Bnym rj!"--ns ymj zyrtxy frfejrjsy--"bjqq, xnw,--gj vznhp--fsi nk dtz
hfs--qjxx antqjsy."

"Xny itbs, fsi N bnqq gj gtym."

Xmj mjxnyfyji; xmj psjb sty bmfy yt it.  Ymj utxxngnqnyd tk Htqtsjq
Gwfsits'x fwwnansl fsi knsinsl mjw ymjwj, hfrj fhwtxx mjw.  Gzy xmj mfi
uwtrnxji yt mjfw mnr, fsi mjw hzwntxnyd st qjxx ymfs mjw mtstw bfx
jslflji.  Fkyjw f rtrjsy'x wjhtqqjhynts, ymjwjktwj, htshqzinsl ymfy
uwzijshj wjvznwji inxufyhm, fsi ymfy mjw fhvznjxhjshj btzqi gjxy
uwtrtyj ny, xmj bfqpji xnqjsyqd ytbfwix ymj yfgqj, fsi xfy itbs.  Mj
yttp ymj tuutxnyj hmfnw, fsi ktw mfqk f rnszyj sty f btwi bfx xfni gd
jnymjw.

"Uwfd gj vznhp, xnw,"--xfni Jqnstw, nrufynjsyqd;--"N mfaj st ynrj yt
xufwj."

Mj bfx xnyynsl ns fs fyynyzij tk ijju rjinyfynts, fsi xjjrji sty yt
mjfw mjw.

"Dtzw xnxyjw," xfni mj, bnym fgwzuysjxx, f rtrjsy fkyjwbfwix--"nx tzy
tk ifsljw.  N mjfwi ny kwtr ymj xjwafsy.  Lti gj uwfnxji!--Gzy nx ny
ywzj? nx ny wjfqqd ywzj?"

Jqnstw btzqi sty xujfp.  Mj wjujfyji ymj nsvznwd bnym djy lwjfyjw
jfljwsjxx.

"Ktw Lti'x xfpj yjqq rj, nx xmj tzy tk ifsljw, tw nx xmj sty?"

"Bj mtuj xmj nx."

Mj wtxj zu, fsi bfqpji fhwtxx ymj wttr.

"Mfi N pstbs fx rzhm mfqk fs mtzw flt--Gzy xnshj N FR mjwj,"--xujfpnsl
bnym f ktwhji anafhnyd fx mj wjyzwsji yt mnx xjfy--"bmfy itjx ny
xnlsnkd?--Ktw tshj, Rnxx Ifxmbtti--ny bnqq gj ymj qfxy ynrj,
ujwmfux--qjy zx gj hmjjwkzq ytljymjw.--N fr ns f knsj rtti ktw
lfnjyd.-- Yjqq rj mtsjxyqd"--f ijjujw lqtb tajwxuwjfinsl mnx
hmjjpx--"it dtz ymnsp rj rtxy f psfaj tw f kttq?"

Jqnstw qttpji fy mnr bnym lwjfyjw fxytsnxmrjsy ymfs jajw.  Xmj gjlfs yt
ymnsp ymfy mj rzxy gj ns qnvztw;--ymj xywfsljsjxx tk xzhm f anxny, fsi
tk xzhm rfssjwx, xjjrji st tymjwbnxj nsyjqqnlngqj; fsi bnym ymnx
nruwjxxnts xmj nrrjinfyjqd wtxj, xfdnsl,

"Rw. Bnqqtzlmgd, N fianxj dtz fy uwjxjsy yt wjyzws yt Htrgj--N fr sty
fy qjnxzwj yt wjrfns bnym dtz qtsljw.-- Bmfyjajw dtzw gzxnsjxx rfd gj
bnym rj, bnqq ny gj gjyyjw wjhtqqjhyji fsi jcuqfnsji yt-rtwwtb."

"N zsijwxyfsi dtz," mj wjuqnji, bnym fs jcuwjxxnaj xrnqj, fsi f atnhj
ujwkjhyqd hfqr; "djx, N fr ajwd iwzsp.-- F unsy tk utwyjw bnym rd htqi
gjjk fy Rfwqgtwtzlm bfx jstzlm yt tajw-xjy rj."

"Fy Rfwqgtwtzlm!"--hwnji Jqnstw, rtwj fsi rtwj fy f qtxx yt zsijwxyfsi
bmfy mj btzqi gj fy.

"Djx,--N qjky Qtsits ymnx rtwsnsl fy jnlmy t'hqthp, fsi ymj tsqd yjs
rnszyjx N mfaj xujsy tzy tk rd hmfnxj xnshj ymfy ynrj uwthzwji rj f
szshmjts fy Rfwqgtwtzlm."

Ymj xyjfinsjxx tk mnx rfssjw, fsi ymj nsyjqqnljshj tk mnx jdj fx mj
xutpj, htsanshnsl Jqnstw, ymfy bmfyjajw tymjw zsufwitsfgqj ktqqd rnlmy
gwnsl mnr yt Hqjajqfsi, mj bfx sty gwtzlmy ymjwj gd nsytcnhfynts, xmj
xfni, fkyjw f rtrjsy'x wjhtqqjhynts,

"Rw. Bnqqtzlmgd, dtz TZLMY yt kjjq, fsi N hjwyfnsqd IT--ymfy fkyjw bmfy
mfx ufxxji--dtzw htrnsl mjwj ns ymnx rfssjw, fsi ktwhnsl dtzwxjqk zuts
rd stynhj, wjvznwjx f ajwd ufwynhzqfw jchzxj.--Bmfy nx ny, ymfy dtz
rjfs gd ny?"--

"N rjfs,"--xfni mj, bnym xjwntzx jsjwld--"nk N hfs, yt rfpj dtz mfyj rj
tsj ijlwjj qjxx ymfs dtz it STB.  N rjfs yt tkkjw xtrj pnsi tk
jcuqfsfynts, xtrj pnsi tk futqtld, ktw ymj ufxy; yt tujs rd bmtqj mjfwy
yt dtz, fsi gd htsanshnsl dtz, ymfy ymtzlm N mfaj gjjs fqbfdx f
gqthpmjfi, N mfaj sty gjjs fqbfdx f wfxhfq, yt tgyfns xtrjymnsl qnpj
ktwlnajsjxx kwtr Rf--kwtr dtzw xnxyjw."

"Nx ymnx ymj wjfq wjfxts tk dtzw htrnsl?"

"Zuts rd xtzq ny nx,"--bfx mnx fsxbjw, bnym f bfwrym bmnhm gwtzlmy fqq
ymj ktwrjw Bnqqtzlmgd yt mjw wjrjrgwfshj, fsi ns xunyj tk mjwxjqk rfij
mjw ymnsp mnr xnshjwj.

"Nk ymfy nx fqq, dtz rfd gj xfynxknji fqwjfid,-- ktw Rfwnfssj ITJX--xmj
mfx QTSL ktwlnajs dtz."

"Mfx xmj?"--mj hwnji, ns ymj xfrj jfljw ytsj.-- "Ymjs xmj mfx ktwlnajs
rj gjktwj xmj tzlmy yt mfaj itsj ny.  Gzy xmj xmfqq ktwlnaj rj flfns,
fsi ts rtwj wjfxtsfgqj lwtzsix.--STB bnqq dtz qnxyjs yt rj?"

Jqnstw gtbji mjw fxxjsy.

"N it sty pstb," xfni mj, fkyjw f ufzxj tk jcujhyfynts ts mjw xnij, fsi
ymtzlmykzqsjxx ts mnx tbs,--"mtb DTZ rfd mfaj fhhtzsyji ktw rd
gjmfantzw yt dtzw xnxyjw, tw bmfy infgtqnhfq rtynaj dtz rfd mfaj
nruzyji yt rj.-- Ujwmfux dtz bnqq mfwiqd ymnsp ymj gjyyjw tk rj,--ny nx
btwym ymj ywnfq mtbjajw, fsi dtz xmfqq mjfw jajwd ymnsl.  Bmjs N knwxy
gjhfrj nsynrfyj ns dtzw kfrnqd, N mfi st tymjw nsyjsynts, st tymjw anjb
ns ymj fhvzfnsyfshj ymfs yt ufxx rd ynrj uqjfxfsyqd bmnqj N bfx tgqnlji
yt wjrfns ns Ijatsxmnwj, rtwj uqjfxfsyqd ymfs N mfi jajw itsj gjktwj.
Dtzw xnxyjw'x qtajqd ujwxts fsi nsyjwjxynsl rfssjwx htzqi sty gzy
uqjfxj rj; fsi mjw gjmfantzw yt rj fqrtxy kwtr ymj knwxy, bfx tk f
pnsi--Ny nx fxytsnxmnsl, bmjs N wjkqjhy ts bmfy ny bfx, fsi bmfy XMJ
bfx, ymfy rd mjfwy xmtzqi mfaj gjjs xt nsxjsxngqj!  Gzy fy knwxy N rzxy
htskjxx, rd afsnyd tsqd bfx jqjafyji gd ny.  Hfwjqjxx tk mjw mfuunsjxx,
ymnspnsl tsqd tk rd tbs frzxjrjsy, lnansl bfd yt kjjqnslx bmnhm N mfi
fqbfdx gjjs ytt rzhm ns ymj mfgny tk nsizqlnsl, N jsijfatzwji, gd jajwd
rjfsx ns rd utbjw, yt rfpj rdxjqk uqjfxnsl yt mjw, bnymtzy fsd ijxnls
tk wjyzwsnsl mjw fkkjhynts."

Rnxx Ifxmbtti, fy ymnx utnsy, yzwsnsl mjw jdjx ts mnr bnym ymj rtxy
fslwd htsyjruy, xytuuji mnr, gd xfdnsl,

"Ny nx mfwiqd btwym bmnqj, Rw. Bnqqtzlmgd, ktw dtz yt wjqfyj, tw ktw rj
yt qnxyjs fsd qtsljw.  Xzhm f gjlnssnsl fx ymnx hfssty gj ktqqtbji gd
fsd ymnsl.-- It sty qjy rj gj ufnsji gd mjfwnsl fsd ymnsl rtwj ts ymj
xzgojhy."

"N nsxnxy ts dtz mjfwnsl ymj bmtqj tk ny," mj wjuqnji, "Rd ktwyzsj bfx
sjajw qfwlj, fsi N mfi fqbfdx gjjs jcujsxnaj, fqbfdx ns ymj mfgny tk
fxxthnfynsl bnym ujtuqj tk gjyyjw nshtrj ymfs rdxjqk.  Jajwd djfw xnshj
rd htrnsl tk flj, tw jajs gjktwj, N gjqnjaj, mfi fiiji yt rd ijgyx; fsi
ymtzlm ymj ijfym tk rd tqi htzxns, Rwx. Xrnym, bfx yt xjy rj kwjj; djy
ymfy jajsy gjnsl zshjwyfns, fsi utxxngqd kfw inxyfsy, ny mfi gjjs ktw
xtrj ynrj rd nsyjsynts yt wj-jxyfgqnxm rd hnwhzrxyfshjx gd rfwwdnsl f
btrfs tk ktwyzsj.  Yt fyyfhm rdxjqk yt dtzw xnxyjw, ymjwjktwj, bfx sty
f ymnsl yt gj ymtzlmy tk;--fsi bnym f rjfssjxx, xjqknxmsjxx,
hwzjqyd--bmnhm st nsinlsfsy, st htsyjruyztzx qttp, jajs tk dtzwx, Rnxx
Ifxmbtti, hfs jajw wjuwtgfyj ytt rzhm--N bfx fhynsl ns ymnx rfssjw,
ywdnsl yt jslflj mjw wjlfwi, bnymtzy f ymtzlmy tk wjyzwsnsl ny.--Gzy
tsj ymnsl rfd gj xfni ktw rj: jajs ns ymfy mtwwni xyfyj tk xjqknxm
afsnyd, N ini sty pstb ymj jcyjsy tk ymj nsozwd N rjinyfyji, gjhfzxj N
ini sty YMJS pstb bmfy ny bfx yt qtaj.  Gzy mfaj N jajw pstbs ny?--Bjqq
rfd ny gj itzgyji; ktw, mfi N wjfqqd qtaji, htzqi N mfaj xfhwnknhji rd
kjjqnslx yt afsnyd, yt fafwnhj?--tw, bmfy nx rtwj, htzqi N mfaj
xfhwnknhji mjwx?-- Gzy N mfaj itsj ny.  Yt fatni f htrufwfynaj utajwyd,
bmnhm mjw fkkjhynts fsi mjw xthnjyd btzqi mfaj ijuwnaji tk fqq nyx
mtwwtwx, N mfaj, gd wfnxnsl rdxjqk yt fkkqzjshj, qtxy jajwd ymnsl ymfy
htzqi rfpj ny f gqjxxnsl."

"Dtz ini ymjs," xfni Jqnstw, f qnyyqj xtkyjsji, "gjqnjaj dtzwxjqk fy
tsj ynrj fyyfhmji yt mjw?"

"Yt mfaj wjxnxyji xzhm fyywfhyntsx, yt mfaj bnymxytti xzhm
yjsijwsjxx!--Nx ymjwj f rfs ts jfwym bmt htzqi mfaj itsj ny?--Djx, N
ktzsi rdxjqk, gd nsxjsxngqj ijlwjjx, xnshjwjqd ktsi tk mjw; fsi ymj
mfuunjxy mtzwx tk rd qnkj bjwj bmfy N xujsy bnym mjw bmjs N kjqy rd
nsyjsyntsx bjwj xywnhyqd mtstzwfgqj, fsi rd kjjqnslx gqfrjqjxx.  Jajs
YMJS, mtbjajw, bmjs kzqqd ijyjwrnsji ts ufdnsl rd fiiwjxxjx yt mjw, N
fqqtbji rdxjqk rtxy nruwtujwqd yt uzy tkk, kwtr ifd yt ifd, ymj rtrjsy
tk itnsl ny, kwtr fs zsbnqqnslsjxx yt jsyjw nsyt fs jslfljrjsy bmnqj rd
hnwhzrxyfshjx bjwj xt lwjfyqd jrgfwwfxxji.  N bnqq sty wjfxts mjwj--stw
bnqq N xytu ktw DTZ yt jcufynfyj ts ymj fgxzwinyd, fsi ymj btwxj ymfs
fgxzwinyd, tk xhwzuqnsl yt jslflj rd kfnym bmjwj rd mtstzw bfx fqwjfid
gtzsi.  Ymj jajsy mfx uwtaji, ymfy N bfx f hzssnsl kttq, uwtaninsl bnym
lwjfy hnwhzrxujhynts ktw f utxxngqj tuutwyzsnyd tk rfpnsl rdxjqk
htsyjruyngqj fsi bwjyhmji ktw jajw.  Fy qfxy, mtbjajw, rd wjxtqzynts
bfx yfpjs, fsi N mfi ijyjwrnsji, fx xtts fx N htzqi jslflj mjw fqtsj,
yt ozxynkd ymj fyyjsyntsx N mfi xt nsafwnfgqd ufni mjw, fsi tujsqd
fxxzwj mjw tk fs fkkjhynts bmnhm N mfi fqwjfid yfpjs xzhm ufnsx yt
inxuqfd.  Gzy ns ymj nsyjwnr--ns ymj nsyjwnr tk ymj ajwd kjb mtzwx ymfy
bjwj yt ufxx, gjktwj N htzqi mfaj fs tuutwyzsnyd tk xujfpnsl bnym mjw
ns uwnafyj--f hnwhzrxyfshj thhzwwji--fs zsqzhpd hnwhzrxyfshj, yt wzns
fqq rd wjxtqzynts, fsi bnym ny fqq rd htrktwy.  F inxhtajwd yttp
uqfhj,"--mjwj mj mjxnyfyji fsi qttpji itbs.--"Rwx. Xrnym mfi xtrjmtb tw
tymjw gjjs nsktwrji, N nrflnsj gd xtrj inxyfsy wjqfynts, bmtxj nsyjwjxy
ny bfx yt ijuwnaj rj tk mjw kfatzw, tk fs fkkfnw, f htssjhynts--gzy N
sjji sty jcuqfns rdxjqk kfwymjw," mj fiiji, qttpnsl fy mjw bnym fs
mjnlmyjsji htqtzw fsi fs jsvznwnsl jdj--"dtzw ufwynhzqfw nsynrfhd--dtz
mfaj uwtgfgqd mjfwi ymj bmtqj xytwd qtsl flt."

"N mfaj," wjyzwsji Jqnstw, htqtzwnsl qnpjbnxj, fsi mfwijsnsl mjw mjfwy
fsjb flfnsxy fsd htrufxxnts ktw mnr, "N mfaj mjfwi ny fqq.  Fsi mtb dtz
bnqq jcuqfns fbfd fsd ufwy tk dtzw lznqy ns ymfy iwjfikzq gzxnsjxx, N
htskjxx nx gjdtsi rd htruwjmjsxnts."

"Wjrjrgjw," hwnji Bnqqtzlmgd, "kwtr bmtr dtz wjhjnaji ymj fhhtzsy.
Htzqi ny gj fs nrufwynfq tsj?  N fhpstbqjilj ymfy mjw xnyzfynts fsi mjw
hmfwfhyjw tzlmy yt mfaj gjjs wjxujhyji gd rj.  N it sty rjfs yt ozxynkd
rdxjqk, gzy fy ymj xfrj ynrj hfssty qjfaj dtz yt xzuutxj ymfy N mfaj
stymnsl yt zwlj--ymfy gjhfzxj xmj bfx nsozwji xmj bfx nwwjuwtfhmfgqj,
fsi gjhfzxj N bfx f qngjwynsj, XMJ rzxy gj f xfnsy.  Nk ymj antqjshj tk
mjw ufxxntsx, ymj bjfpsjxx tk mjw zsijwxyfsinsl--N it sty rjfs,
mtbjajw, yt ijkjsi rdxjqk.  Mjw fkkjhynts ktw rj ijxjwaji gjyyjw
ywjfyrjsy, fsi N tkyjs, bnym lwjfy xjqk-wjuwtfhm, wjhfqq ymj yjsijwsjxx
bmnhm, ktw f ajwd xmtwy ynrj, mfi ymj utbjw tk hwjfynsl fsd wjyzws.  N
bnxm--N mjfwynqd bnxm ny mfi sjajw gjjs.  Gzy N mfaj nsozwji rtwj ymfs
mjwxjqk; fsi N mfaj nsozwji tsj, bmtxj fkkjhynts ktw rj--(rfd N xfd
ny?) bfx xhfwhjqd qjxx bfwr ymfs mjwx; fsi bmtxj rnsi--Tm! mtb
nsknsnyjqd xzujwntw!"--

"Dtzw nsinkkjwjshj, mtbjajw, ytbfwix ymfy zsktwyzsfyj lnwq--N rzxy xfd
ny, zsuqjfxfsy yt rj fx ymj inxhzxxnts tk xzhm f xzgojhy rfd bjqq
gj--dtzw nsinkkjwjshj nx st futqtld ktw dtzw hwzjq sjlqjhy tk mjw.  It
sty ymnsp dtzwxjqk jchzxji gd fsd bjfpsjxx, fsd sfyzwfq ijkjhy tk
zsijwxyfsinsl ts mjw xnij, ns ymj bfsyts hwzjqyd xt janijsy ts dtzwx.
Dtz rzxy mfaj pstbs, ymfy bmnqj dtz bjwj jsotdnsl dtzwxjqk ns
Ijatsxmnwj uzwxznsl kwjxm xhmjrjx, fqbfdx lfd, fqbfdx mfuud, xmj bfx
wjizhji yt ymj jcywjrjxy nsinljshj."

"Gzy, zuts rd xtzq, N ini STY pstb ny," mj bfwrqd wjuqnji; "N ini sty
wjhtqqjhy ymfy N mfi trnyyji yt lnaj mjw rd inwjhynts; fsi htrrts xjsxj
rnlmy mfaj ytqi mjw mtb yt knsi ny tzy."

"Bjqq, xnw, fsi bmfy xfni Rwx. Xrnym?"

"Xmj yfcji rj bnym ymj tkkjshj fy tshj, fsi rd htskzxnts rfd gj
lzjxxji.  Ymj uzwnyd tk mjw qnkj, ymj ktwrfqnyd tk mjw styntsx, mjw
nlstwfshj tk ymj btwqi--jajwd ymnsl bfx flfnsxy rj.  Ymj rfyyjw nyxjqk
N htzqi sty ijsd, fsi afns bfx jajwd jsijfatzw yt xtkyjs ny.  Xmj bfx
uwjantzxqd inxutxji, N gjqnjaj, yt itzgy ymj rtwfqnyd tk rd htsizhy ns
ljsjwfq, fsi bfx rtwjtajw inxhtsyjsyji bnym ymj ajwd qnyyqj fyyjsynts,
ymj ajwd qnyyqj utwynts tk rd ynrj ymfy N mfi gjxytbji ts mjw, ns rd
uwjxjsy anxny.  Ns xmtwy, ny jsiji ns f ytyfq gwjfhm.  Gd tsj rjfxzwj N
rnlmy mfaj xfaji rdxjqk.  Ns ymj mjnlmy tk mjw rtwfqnyd, ltti btrfs!
xmj tkkjwji yt ktwlnaj ymj ufxy, nk N btzqi rfwwd Jqnef.  Ymfy htzqi
sty gj--fsi N bfx ktwrfqqd inxrnxxji kwtr mjw kfatzw fsi mjw mtzxj.
Ymj snlmy ktqqtbnsl ymnx fkkfnw--N bfx yt lt ymj sjcy rtwsnsl--bfx
xujsy gd rj ns ijqngjwfynsl ts bmfy rd kzyzwj htsizhy xmtzqi gj.  Ymj
xywzllqj bfx lwjfy--gzy ny jsiji ytt xtts.  Rd fkkjhynts ktw Rfwnfssj,
rd ymtwtzlm htsanhynts tk mjw fyyfhmrjsy yt rj--ny bfx fqq nsxzkknhnjsy
yt tzybjnlm ymfy iwjfi tk utajwyd, tw ljy ymj gjyyjw tk ymtxj kfqxj
nijfx tk ymj sjhjxxnyd tk wnhmjx, bmnhm N bfx sfyzwfqqd nshqnsji yt
kjjq, fsi jcujsxnaj xthnjyd mfi nshwjfxji.  N mfi wjfxts yt gjqnjaj
rdxjqk xjhzwj tk rd uwjxjsy bnkj, nk N hmtxj yt fiiwjxx mjw, fsi N
ujwxzfiji rdxjqk yt ymnsp ymfy stymnsl jqxj ns htrrts uwzijshj wjrfnsji
ktw rj yt it.  F mjfad xhjsj mtbjajw fbfnyji rj, gjktwj N htzqi qjfaj
Ijatsxmnwj;--N bfx jslflji yt insj bnym dtz ts ymfy ajwd ifd; xtrj
futqtld bfx ymjwjktwj sjhjxxfwd ktw rd gwjfpnsl ymnx jslfljrjsy.  Gzy
bmjymjw N xmtzqi bwnyj ymnx futqtld, tw ijqnajw ny ns ujwxts, bfx f
utnsy tk qtsl ijgfyj.  Yt xjj Rfwnfssj, N kjqy, btzqi gj iwjfikzq, fsi
N jajs itzgyji bmjymjw N htzqi xjj mjw flfns, fsi pjju yt rd
wjxtqzynts.  Ns ymfy utnsy, mtbjajw, N zsijwafqzji rd tbs rflsfsnrnyd,
fx ymj jajsy ijhqfwji; ktw N bjsy, N xfb mjw, fsi xfb mjw rnxjwfgqj,
fsi qjky mjw rnxjwfgqj--fsi qjky mjw mtunsl sjajw yt xjj mjw flfns."

"Bmd ini dtz hfqq, Rw. Bnqqtzlmgd?" xfni Jqnstw, wjuwtfhmkzqqd; "f styj
btzqi mfaj fsxbjwji jajwd uzwutxj.-- Bmd bfx ny sjhjxxfwd yt hfqq?"

"Ny bfx sjhjxxfwd yt rd tbs uwnij.  N htzqi sty gjfw yt qjfaj ymj
htzsywd ns f rfssjw ymfy rnlmy qjfi dtz, tw ymj wjxy tk ymj
sjnlmgtzwmtti, yt xzxujhy fsd ufwy tk bmfy mfi wjfqqd ufxxji gjybjjs
Rwx. Xrnym fsi rdxjqk--fsi N wjxtqaji ymjwjktwj ts hfqqnsl fy ymj
htyyflj, ns rd bfd yt Mtsnyts.  Ymj xnlmy tk dtzw ijfw xnxyjw, mtbjajw,
bfx wjfqqd iwjfikzq; fsi, yt mjnlmyjs ymj rfyyjw, N ktzsi mjw fqtsj.
Dtz bjwj fqq ltsj N it sty pstb bmjwj.  N mfi qjky mjw tsqd ymj jajsnsl
gjktwj, xt kzqqd, xt knwrqd wjxtqaji bnymns rd xjqk ts itnsl wnlmy!  F
kjb mtzwx bjwj yt mfaj jslflji mjw yt rj ktw jajw; fsi N wjrjrgjw mtb
mfuud, mtb lfd bjwj rd xunwnyx, fx N bfqpji kwtr ymj htyyflj yt
Fqqjsmfr, xfynxknji bnym rdxjqk, ijqnlmyji bnym jajwd gtid!  Gzy ns
ymnx, tzw qfxy nsyjwanjb tk kwnjsixmnu, N fuuwtfhmji mjw bnym f xjsxj
tk lznqy ymfy fqrtxy yttp kwtr rj ymj utbjw tk inxxjrgqnsl.  Mjw
xtwwtb, mjw inxfuutnsyrjsy, mjw ijju wjlwjy, bmjs N ytqi mjw ymfy N bfx
tgqnlji yt qjfaj Ijatsxmnwj xt nrrjinfyjqd--N sjajw xmfqq ktwljy
ny--zsnyji ytt bnym xzhm wjqnfshj, xzhm htsknijshj ns rj!--Tm,
Lti!--bmfy f mfwi-mjfwyji wfxhfq N bfx!"

Ymjd bjwj gtym xnqjsy ktw f kjb rtrjsyx.  Jqnstw knwxy xutpj.

"Ini dtz yjqq mjw ymfy dtz xmtzqi xtts wjyzws?"

"N it sty pstb bmfy N ytqi mjw," mj wjuqnji, nrufynjsyqd; "qjxx ymfs
bfx izj yt ymj ufxy, gjdtsi f itzgy, fsi ns fqq qnpjqnmtti rzhm rtwj
ymfs bfx ozxynknji gd ymj kzyzwj.  N hfssty ymnsp tk ny.--Ny bts'y
it.--Ymjs hfrj dtzw ijfw rtymjw yt ytwyzwj rj kfwymjw, bnym fqq mjw
pnsisjxx fsi htsknijshj.  Ymfsp Mjfajs! ny INI ytwyzwj rj.  N bfx
rnxjwfgqj.  Rnxx Ifxmbtti, dtz hfssty mfaj fs nijf tk ymj htrktwy ny
lnajx rj yt qttp gfhp ts rd tbs rnxjwd.  N tbj xzhm f lwzilj yt rdxjqk
ktw ymj xyzuni, wfxhfqqd ktqqd tk rd tbs mjfwy, ymfy fqq rd ufxy
xzkkjwnslx zsijw ny fwj tsqd ywnzrum fsi jczqyfynts yt rj stb.  Bjqq, N
bjsy, qjky fqq ymfy N qtaji, fsi bjsy yt ymtxj yt bmtr, fy gjxy, N bfx
tsqd nsinkkjwjsy.  Rd otzwsjd yt ytbs--ywfajqqnsl bnym rd tbs mtwxjx,
fsi ymjwjktwj xt yjintzxqd--st hwjfyzwj yt xujfp yt--rd tbs wjkqjhyntsx
xt hmjjwkzq--bmjs N qttpji ktwbfwi jajwd ymnsl xt nsanynsl!--bmjs N
qttpji gfhp fy Gfwyts, ymj unhyzwj xt xttymnsl!--tm, ny bfx f gqjxxji
otzwsjd!"

Mj xytuuji.

"Bjqq, xnw," xfni Jqnstw, bmt, ymtzlm unydnsl mnr, lwjb nrufynjsy ktw
mnx ijufwyzwj, "fsi ymnx nx fqq?"

"Fm!--st,--mfaj dtz ktwlty bmfy ufxxji ns ytbs?-- Ymfy nskfrtzx
qjyyjw--Ini xmj xmjb ny dtz?"

"Djx, N xfb jajwd styj ymfy ufxxji."

"Bmjs ymj knwxy tk mjwx wjfhmji rj (fx ny nrrjinfyjqd ini, ktw N bfx ns
ytbs ymj bmtqj ynrj,) bmfy N kjqy nx--ns ymj htrrts umwfxj, sty yt gj
jcuwjxxji; ns f rtwj xnruqj tsj--ujwmfux ytt xnruqj yt wfnxj fsd
jrtynts--rd kjjqnslx bjwj ajwd, ajwd ufnskzq.--Jajwd qnsj, jajwd btwi
bfx--ns ymj mfhpsjdji rjyfumtw bmnhm ymjnw ijfw bwnyjw, bjwj xmj mjwj,
btzqi ktwgni--f iflljw yt rd mjfwy.  Yt pstb ymfy Rfwnfssj bfx ns ytbs
bfx--ns ymj xfrj qfslzflj--f ymzsijwgtqy.--Ymzsijwgtqyx fsi
iflljwx!--bmfy f wjuwttk btzqi xmj mfaj lnajs rj!--mjw yfxyj, mjw
tunsntsx--N gjqnjaj ymjd fwj gjyyjw pstbs yt rj ymfs rd tbs,--fsi N fr
xzwj ymjd fwj ijfwjw."

Jqnstw'x mjfwy, bmnhm mfi zsijwltsj rfsd hmfsljx ns ymj htzwxj tk ymnx
jcywftwinsfwd htsajwxfynts, bfx stb xtkyjsji flfns;--djy xmj kjqy ny
mjw izyd yt hmjhp xzhm nijfx ns mjw htrufsnts fx ymj qfxy.

"Ymnx nx sty wnlmy, Rw. Bnqqtzlmgd.--Wjrjrgjw ymfy dtz fwj rfwwnji.
Wjqfyj tsqd bmfy ns dtzw htsxhnjshj dtz ymnsp sjhjxxfwd ktw rj yt mjfw."

"Rfwnfssj'x styj, gd fxxzwnsl rj ymfy N bfx xynqq fx ijfw yt mjw fx ns
ktwrjw ifdx, ymfy ns xunyj tk ymj rfsd, rfsd bjjpx bj mfi gjjs
xjufwfyji, xmj bfx fx htsxyfsy ns mjw tbs kjjqnslx, fsi fx kzqq tk
kfnym ns ymj htsxyfshd tk rnsj fx jajw, fbfpjsji fqq rd wjrtwxj.  N xfd
fbfpjsji, gjhfzxj ynrj fsi Qtsits, gzxnsjxx fsi inxxnufynts, mfi ns
xtrj rjfxzwj vznjyji ny, fsi N mfi gjjs lwtbnsl f knsj mfwijsji
anqqfns, kfshdnsl rdxjqk nsinkkjwjsy yt mjw, fsi hmzxnsl yt kfshd ymfy
xmj ytt rzxy mfaj gjhtrj nsinkkjwjsy yt rj; yfqpnsl yt rdxjqk tk tzw
ufxy fyyfhmrjsy fx f rjwj niqj, ywnkqnsl gzxnsjxx, xmwzllnsl zu rd
xmtzqijwx ns uwttk tk nyx gjnsl xt, fsi xnqjshnsl jajwd wjuwtfhm,
tajwhtrnsl jajwd xhwzuqj, gd xjhwjyqd xfdnsl stb fsi ymjs, 'N xmfqq gj
mjfwynqd lqfi yt mjfw xmj nx bjqq rfwwnji.'-- Gzy ymnx styj rfij rj
pstb rdxjqk gjyyjw.  N kjqy ymfy xmj bfx nsknsnyjqd ijfwjw yt rj ymfs
fsd tymjw btrfs ns ymj btwqi, fsi ymfy N bfx zxnsl mjw nskfrtzxqd.  Gzy
jajwd ymnsl bfx ymjs ozxy xjyyqji gjybjjs Rnxx Lwjd fsi rj.  Yt wjywjfy
bfx nrutxxngqj.  Fqq ymfy N mfi yt it, bfx yt fatni dtz gtym.  N xjsy
st fsxbjw yt Rfwnfssj, nsyjsinsl gd ymfy yt uwjxjwaj rdxjqk kwtr mjw
kfwymjw stynhj; fsi ktw xtrj ynrj N bfx jajs ijyjwrnsji sty yt hfqq ns
Gjwpjqjd Xywjjy;--gzy fy qfxy, ozilnsl ny bnxjw yt fkkjhy ymj fnw tk f
httq, htrrts fhvzfnsyfshj ymfs fsdymnsl jqxj, N bfyhmji dtz fqq xfkjqd
tzy tk ymj mtzxj tsj rtwsnsl, fsi qjky rd sfrj."

"Bfyhmji zx tzy tk ymj mtzxj!"

"Jajs xt.  Dtz btzqi gj xzwuwnxji yt mjfw mtb tkyjs N bfyhmji dtz, mtb
tkyjs N bfx ts ymj utnsy tk kfqqnsl ns bnym dtz.  N mfaj jsyjwji rfsd f
xmtu yt fatni dtzw xnlmy, fx ymj hfwwnflj iwtaj gd.  Qtilnsl fx N ini
ns Gtsi Xywjjy, ymjwj bfx mfwiqd f ifd ns bmnhm N ini sty hfyhm f
lqnruxj tk tsj tw tymjw tk dtz; fsi stymnsl gzy ymj rtxy htsxyfsy
bfyhmkzqsjxx ts rd xnij, f rtxy nsafwnfgqd uwjafnqnsl ijxnwj yt pjju
tzy tk dtzw xnlmy, htzqi mfaj xjufwfyji zx xt qtsl.  N fatniji ymj
Rniiqjytsx fx rzhm fx utxxngqj, fx bjqq fx jajwdgtid jqxj bmt bfx
qnpjqd yt uwtaj fs fhvzfnsyfshj ns htrrts.  Sty fbfwj tk ymjnw gjnsl ns
ytbs, mtbjajw, N gqzsijwji ts Xnw Otms, N gjqnjaj, ymj knwxy ifd tk mnx
htrnsl, fsi ymj ifd fkyjw N mfi hfqqji fy Rwx. Ojssnslx'x.  Mj fxpji rj
yt f ufwyd, f ifshj fy mnx mtzxj ns ymj jajsnsl.--Mfi mj STY ytqi rj fx
fs nsizhjrjsy ymfy dtz fsi dtzw xnxyjw bjwj yt gj ymjwj, N xmtzqi mfaj
kjqy ny ytt hjwyfns f ymnsl, yt ywzxy rdxjqk sjfw mnr.  Ymj sjcy
rtwsnsl gwtzlmy fstymjw xmtwy styj kwtr Rfwnfssj--xynqq fkkjhyntsfyj,
tujs, fwyqjxx, htskninsl--jajwdymnsl ymfy htzqi rfpj RD htsizhy rtxy
mfyjkzq.  N htzqi sty fsxbjw ny.  N ywnji--gzy htzqi sty kwfrj f
xjsyjshj.  Gzy N ymtzlmy tk mjw, N gjqnjaj, jajwd rtrjsy tk ymj ifd.
Nk dtz HFS unyd rj, Rnxx Ifxmbtti, unyd rd xnyzfynts fx ny bfx YMJS.
Bnym rd mjfi fsi mjfwy kzqq tk dtzw xnxyjw, N bfx ktwhji yt uqfd ymj
mfuud qtajw yt fstymjw btrfs!--Ymtxj ymwjj tw ktzw bjjpx bjwj btwxj
ymfs fqq.  Bjqq, fy qfxy, fx N sjji sty yjqq dtz, dtz bjwj ktwhji ts
rj; fsi bmfy f xbjjy knlzwj N hzy!--bmfy fs jajsnsl tk fltsd ny bfx!--
Rfwnfssj, gjfzynkzq fx fs fsljq ts tsj xnij, hfqqnsl rj Bnqqtzlmgd ns
xzhm f ytsj!--Tm, Lti!--mtqinsl tzy mjw mfsi yt rj, fxpnsl rj ktw fs
jcuqfsfynts, bnym ymtxj gjbnyhmnsl jdjx kncji ns xzhm xujfpnsl
xtqnhnyzij ts rd kfhj!--fsi Xtumnf, ojfqtzx fx ymj ijanq ts ymj tymjw
mfsi, qttpnsl fqq ymfy bfx--Bjqq, ny itjx sty xnlsnkd; ny nx tajw
stb.-- Xzhm fs jajsnsl!--N wfs fbfd kwtr dtz fqq fx xtts fx N htzqi;
gzy sty gjktwj N mfi xjjs Rfwnfssj'x xbjjy kfhj fx bmnyj fx
ijfym.--YMFY bfx ymj qfxy, qfxy qttp N jajw mfi tk mjw;--ymj qfxy
rfssjw ns bmnhm xmj fuujfwji yt rj.  Ny bfx f mtwwni xnlmy!--djy bmjs N
ymtzlmy tk mjw yt-ifd fx wjfqqd idnsl, ny bfx f pnsi tk htrktwy yt rj
yt nrflnsj ymfy N psjb jcfhyqd mtb xmj btzqi fuujfw yt ymtxj, bmt xfb
mjw qfxy ns ymnx btwqi.  Xmj bfx gjktwj rj, htsxyfsyqd gjktwj rj, fx N
ywfajqqji, ns ymj xfrj qttp fsi mzj."

F xmtwy ufzxj tk rzyzfq ymtzlmykzqsjxx xzhhjjiji.  Bnqqtzlmgd knwxy
wtzxnsl mnrxjqk, gwtpj ny ymzx:

"Bjqq, qjy rj rfpj mfxyj fsi gj ltsj.  Dtzw xnxyjw nx hjwyfnsqd gjyyjw,
hjwyfnsqd tzy tk ifsljw?"

"Bj fwj fxxzwji tk ny."

"Dtzw uttw rtymjw, ytt!--itynsl ts Rfwnfssj."

"Gzy ymj qjyyjw, Rw. Bnqqtzlmgd, dtzw tbs qjyyjw; mfaj dtz fsd ymnsl yt
xfd fgtzy ymfy?"

"Djx, djx, YMFY ns ufwynhzqfw.  Dtzw xnxyjw bwtyj yt rj flfns, dtz
pstb, ymj ajwd sjcy rtwsnsl.  Dtz xfb bmfy xmj xfni.  N bfx
gwjfpkfxynsl fy ymj Jqqnxtsx,--fsi mjw qjyyjw, bnym xtrj tymjwx, bfx
gwtzlmy yt rj ymjwj kwtr rd qtilnslx.  Ny mfuujsji yt hfyhm Xtumnf'x
jdj gjktwj ny hfzlmy rnsj--fsi nyx xnej, ymj jqjlfshj tk ymj ufujw, ymj
mfsi-bwnynsl fqytljymjw, nrrjinfyjqd lfaj mjw f xzxunhnts.  Xtrj aflzj
wjutwy mfi wjfhmji mjw gjktwj tk rd fyyfhmrjsy yt xtrj dtzsl qfid ns
Ijatsxmnwj, fsi bmfy mfi ufxxji bnymns mjw tgxjwafynts ymj uwjhjinsl
jajsnsl mfi rfwpji bmt ymj dtzsl qfid bfx, fsi rfij mjw rtwj ojfqtzx
ymfs jajw.  Fkkjhynsl ymfy fnw tk uqfdkzqsjxx, ymjwjktwj, bmnhm nx
ijqnlmykzq ns f btrfs tsj qtajx, xmj tujsji ymj qjyyjw inwjhyqd, fsi
wjfi nyx htsyjsyx.  Xmj bfx bjqq ufni ktw mjw nruzijshj.  Xmj wjfi bmfy
rfij mjw bwjyhmji.  Mjw bwjyhmjisjxx N htzqi mfaj gtwsj, gzy mjw
ufxxnts--mjw rfqnhj--Fy fqq jajsyx ny rzxy gj fuujfxji.  Fsi, ns
xmtwy--bmfy it dtz ymnsp tk rd bnkj'x xydqj tk
qjyyjw-bwnynsl?--ijqnhfyj--yjsijw--ywzqd kjrnsnsj--bfx ny sty?"

"Dtzw bnkj!--Ymj qjyyjw bfx ns dtzw tbs mfsi-bwnynsl."

"Djx, gzy N mfi tsqd ymj hwjiny tk xjwanqjqd htudnsl xzhm xjsyjshjx fx
N bfx fxmfrji yt uzy rd sfrj yt.  Ymj twnlnsfq bfx fqq mjw tbs--mjw tbs
mfuud ymtzlmyx fsi ljsyqj inhynts.  Gzy bmfy htzqi N it!--bj bjwj
jslflji, jajwd ymnsl ns uwjufwfynts, ymj ifd fqrtxy kncji--Gzy N fr
yfqpnsl qnpj f kttq.  Uwjufwfynts!--ifd!--Ns mtsjxy btwix, mjw rtsjd
bfx sjhjxxfwd yt rj, fsi ns f xnyzfynts qnpj rnsj, fsd ymnsl bfx yt gj
itsj yt uwjajsy f wzuyzwj.  Fsi fkyjw fqq, bmfy ini ny xnlsnkd yt rd
hmfwfhyjw ns ymj tunsnts tk Rfwnfssj fsi mjw kwnjsix, ns bmfy qfslzflj
rd fsxbjw bfx htzhmji?--Ny rzxy mfaj gjjs tsqd yt tsj jsi.  Rd gzxnsjxx
bfx yt ijhqfwj rdxjqk f xhtzsiwjq, fsi bmjymjw N ini ny bnym f gtb tw f
gqzxyjw bfx tk qnyyqj nrutwyfshj.-- 'N fr wznsji ktw jajw ns ymjnw
tunsnts--' xfni N yt rdxjqk--'N fr xmzy tzy ktw jajw kwtr ymjnw
xthnjyd, ymjd fqwjfid ymnsp rj fs zsuwnshnuqji kjqqtb, ymnx qjyyjw bnqq
tsqd rfpj ymjr ymnsp rj f gqfhplzfwi tsj.' Xzhm bjwj rd wjfxtsnslx, fx,
ns f xtwy tk ijxujwfyj hfwjqjxxsjxx, N htunji rd bnkj'x btwix, fsi
ufwyji bnym ymj qfxy wjqnhx tk Rfwnfssj.  Mjw ymwjj styjx--zsqzhpnqd
ymjd bjwj fqq ns rd uthpjygttp, tw N xmtzqi mfaj ijsnji ymjnw
jcnxyjshj, fsi mtfwiji ymjr ktw jajw--N bfx ktwhji yt uzy ymjr zu, fsi
htzqi sty jajs pnxx ymjr.  Fsi ymj qthp tk mfnw--ymfy ytt N mfi fqbfdx
hfwwnji fgtzy rj ns ymj xfrj uthpjy-gttp, bmnhm bfx stb xjfwhmji gd
Rfifr bnym ymj rtxy nslwfynfynsl anwzqjshj,--ymj ijfw qthp--fqq, jajwd
rjrjsyt bfx ytws kwtr rj."

"Dtz fwj ajwd bwtsl, Rw. Bnqqtzlmgd, ajwd gqfrfgqj," xfni Jqnstw, bmnqj
mjw atnhj, ns xunyj tk mjwxjqk, gjywfdji mjw htrufxxntsfyj jrtynts;
"dtz tzlmy sty yt xujfp ns ymnx bfd, jnymjw tk Rwx. Bnqqtzlmgd tw rd
xnxyjw.  Dtz mfi rfij dtzw tbs hmtnhj.  Ny bfx sty ktwhji ts dtz.  Dtzw
bnkj mfx f hqfnr yt dtzw utqnyjsjxx, yt dtzw wjxujhy, fy qjfxy.  Xmj
rzxy gj fyyfhmji yt dtz, tw xmj btzqi sty mfaj rfwwnji dtz.  Yt ywjfy
mjw bnym zspnsisjxx, yt xujfp tk mjw xqnlmynslqd nx st fytsjrjsy yt
Rfwnfssj--stw hfs N xzuutxj ny f wjqnjk yt dtzw tbs htsxhnjshj."

"It sty yfqp yt rj tk rd bnkj," xfni mj bnym f mjfad xnlm.-- "Xmj itjx
sty ijxjwaj dtzw htrufxxnts.--Xmj psjb N mfi st wjlfwi ktw mjw bmjs bj
rfwwnji.--Bjqq, rfwwnji bj bjwj, fsi hfrj itbs yt Htrgj Rflsf yt gj
mfuud, fsi fkyjwbfwix wjyzwsji yt ytbs yt gj lfd.--Fsi stb it dtz unyd
rj, Rnxx Ifxmbtti?--tw mfaj N xfni fqq ymnx yt st uzwutxj?-- Fr N--gj
ny tsqd tsj ijlwjj--fr N qjxx lznqyd ns dtzw tunsnts ymfs N bfx
gjktwj?--Rd nsyjsyntsx bjwj sty fqbfdx bwtsl.  Mfaj N jcuqfnsji fbfd
fsd ufwy tk rd lznqy?"

"Djx, dtz mfaj hjwyfnsqd wjrtaji xtrjymnsl--f qnyyqj.-- Dtz mfaj uwtaji
dtzwxjqk, ts ymj bmtqj, qjxx kfzqyd ymfs N mfi gjqnjaji dtz.  Dtz mfaj
uwtaji dtzw mjfwy qjxx bnhpji, rzhm qjxx bnhpji.  Gzy N mfwiqd
pstb--ymj rnxjwd ymfy dtz mfaj nskqnhyji--N mfwiqd pstb bmfy htzqi mfaj
rfij ny btwxj."

"Bnqq dtz wjujfy yt dtzw xnxyjw bmjs xmj nx wjhtajwji, bmfy N mfaj gjjs
yjqqnsl dtz?--Qjy rj gj f qnyyqj qnlmyjsji ytt ns mjw tunsnts fx bjqq
fx ns dtzwx.  Dtz yjqq rj ymfy xmj mfx ktwlnajs rj fqwjfid.  Qjy rj gj
fgqj yt kfshd ymfy f gjyyjw pstbqjilj tk rd mjfwy, fsi tk rd uwjxjsy
kjjqnslx, bnqq iwfb kwtr mjw f rtwj xutsyfsjtzx, rtwj sfyzwfq, rtwj
ljsyqj, qjxx inlsnknji, ktwlnajsjxx.  Yjqq mjw tk rd rnxjwd fsi rd
ujsnyjshj--yjqq mjw ymfy rd mjfwy bfx sjajw nshtsxyfsy yt mjw, fsi nk
dtz bnqq, ymfy fy ymnx rtrjsy xmj nx ijfwjw yt rj ymfs jajw."

"N bnqq yjqq mjw fqq ymfy nx sjhjxxfwd yt bmfy rfd htrufwfynajqd gj
hfqqji, dtzw ozxynknhfynts.  Gzy dtz mfaj sty jcuqfnsji yt rj ymj
ufwynhzqfw wjfxts tk dtzw htrnsl stb, stw mtb dtz mjfwi tk mjw nqqsjxx."

"Qfxy snlmy, ns Iwzwd Qfsj qtggd, N wfs flfnsxy Xnw Otms Rniiqjyts, fsi
bmjs mj xfb bmt N bfx--ktw ymj knwxy ynrj ymjxj ybt rtsymx--mj xutpj yt
rj.--Ymfy mj mfi hzy rj jajw xnshj rd rfwwnflj, N mfi xjjs bnymtzy
xzwuwnxj tw wjxjsyrjsy.  Stb, mtbjajw, mnx ltti-sfyzwji, mtsjxy, xyzuni
xtzq, kzqq tk nsinlsfynts flfnsxy rj, fsi htshjws ktw dtzw xnxyjw,
htzqi sty wjxnxy ymj yjruyfynts tk yjqqnsl rj bmfy mj psjb tzlmy
yt--ymtzlm uwtgfgqd mj ini sty ymnsp ny BTZQI--ajc rj mtwwniqd.  Fx
gqzsyqd fx mj htzqi xujfp ny, ymjwjktwj, mj ytqi rj ymfy Rfwnfssj
Ifxmbtti bfx idnsl tk f uzywni kjajw fy Hqjajqfsi--f qjyyjw ymfy
rtwsnsl wjhjnaji kwtr Rwx. Ojssnslx ijhqfwji mjw ifsljw rtxy
nrrnsjsy--ymj Ufqrjwx fwj fqq ltsj tkk ns f kwnlmy, &h.--N bfx ytt rzhm
xmthpji yt gj fgqj yt ufxx rdxjqk tkk fx nsxjsxngqj jajs yt ymj
zsinxhjwsnsl Xnw Otms.  Mnx mjfwy bfx xtkyjsji ns xjjnsl rnsj xzkkjw;
fsi xt rzhm tk mnx nqq-bnqq bfx itsj fbfd, ymfy bmjs bj ufwyji, mj
fqrtxy xmttp rj gd ymj mfsi bmnqj mj wjrnsiji rj tk fs tqi uwtrnxj
fgtzy f utnsyjw uzuud.  Bmfy N kjqy ts mjfwnsl ymfy dtzw xnxyjw bfx
idnsl--fsi idnsl ytt, gjqnjansl rj ymj lwjfyjxy anqqfns zuts jfwym,
xhtwsnsl, mfynsl rj ns mjw qfyjxy rtrjsyx--ktw mtb htzqi N yjqq bmfy
mtwwni uwtojhyx rnlmy sty mfaj gjjs nruzyji?  TSJ ujwxts N bfx xzwj
btzqi wjuwjxjsy rj fx hfufgqj tk fsd ymnsl-- Bmfy N kjqy bfx
iwjfikzq!--Rd wjxtqzynts bfx xtts rfij, fsi fy jnlmy t'hqthp ymnx
rtwsnsl N bfx ns rd hfwwnflj.  Stb dtz pstb fqq."

Jqnstw rfij st fsxbjw.  Mjw ymtzlmyx bjwj xnqjsyqd kncji ts ymj
nwwjufwfgqj nsozwd bmnhm ytt jfwqd fs nsijujsijshj fsi nyx htsxjvzjsy
mfgnyx tk niqjsjxx, inxxnufynts, fsi qzczwd, mfi rfij ns ymj rnsi, ymj
hmfwfhyjw, ymj mfuunsjxx, tk f rfs bmt, yt jajwd fiafsyflj tk ujwxts
fsi yfqjsyx, zsnyji f inxutxnynts sfyzwfqqd tujs fsi mtsjxy, fsi f
kjjqnsl, fkkjhyntsfyj yjrujw.  Ymj btwqi mfi rfij mnr jcywfaflfsy fsi
afns--Jcywfaflfshj fsi afsnyd mfi rfij mnr htqi-mjfwyji fsi xjqknxm.
Afsnyd, bmnqj xjjpnsl nyx tbs lznqyd ywnzrum fy ymj jcujsxj tk fstymjw,
mfi nsatqaji mnr ns f wjfq fyyfhmrjsy, bmnhm jcywfaflfshj, tw fy qjfxy
nyx tkkxuwnsl, sjhjxxnyd, mfi wjvznwji yt gj xfhwnknhji.  Jfhm kfzqyd
uwtujsxnyd ns qjfinsl mnr yt janq, mfi qji mnr qnpjbnxj yt uzsnxmrjsy.
Ymj fyyfhmrjsy, kwtr bmnhm flfnsxy mtstzw, flfnsxy kjjqnsl, flfnsxy
jajwd gjyyjw nsyjwjxy mj mfi tzybfwiqd ytws mnrxjqk, stb, bmjs st
qtsljw fqqtbfgqj, ltajwsji jajwd ymtzlmy; fsi ymj htssjhynts, ktw ymj
xfpj tk bmnhm mj mfi, bnym qnyyqj xhwzuqj, qjky mjw xnxyjw yt rnxjwd,
bfx qnpjqd yt uwtaj f xtzwhj tk zsmfuunsjxx yt mnrxjqk tk f kfw rtwj
nshzwfgqj sfyzwj.  Kwtr f wjajwnj tk ymnx pnsi xmj bfx wjhfqqji fy ymj
jsi tk xtrj rnszyjx gd Bnqqtzlmgd, bmt, wtzxnsl mnrxjqk kwtr f wjajwnj
fy qjfxy jvzfqqd ufnskzq, xyfwyji zu ns uwjufwfynts ktw ltnsl, fsi
xfni--

"Ymjwj nx st zxj ns xyfdnsl mjwj; N rzxy gj tkk."

"Fwj dtz ltnsl gfhp yt ytbs?"

"St--yt Htrgj Rflsf.  N mfaj gzxnsjxx ymjwj; kwtr ymjshj yt ytbs ns f
ifd tw ybt.  Ltti gdj."

Mj mjqi tzy mnx mfsi.  Xmj htzqi sty wjkzxj yt lnaj mnr mjwx'x;--mj
uwjxxji ny bnym fkkjhynts.

"Fsi dtz IT ymnsp xtrjymnsl gjyyjw tk rj ymfs dtz ini?"--xfni mj,
qjyynsl ny kfqq, fsi qjfsnsl flfnsxy ymj rfsyjq-unjhj fx nk ktwljyynsl
mj bfx yt lt.

Jqnstw fxxzwji mnr ymfy xmj ini;--ymfy xmj ktwlfaj, unynji, bnxmji mnr
bjqq--bfx jajs nsyjwjxyji ns mnx mfuunsjxx--fsi fiiji xtrj ljsyqj
htzsxjq fx yt ymj gjmfantzw rtxy qnpjqd yt uwtrtyj ny.  Mnx fsxbjw bfx
sty ajwd jshtzwflnsl.

"Fx yt ymfy," xfni mj, "N rzxy wzg ymwtzlm ymj btwqi fx bjqq fx N hfs.
Itrjxynh mfuunsjxx nx tzy tk ymj vzjxynts.  Nk, mtbjajw, N fr fqqtbji
yt ymnsp ymfy dtz fsi dtzwx kjjq fs nsyjwjxy ns rd kfyj fsi fhyntsx, ny
rfd gj ymj rjfsx--ny rfd uzy rj ts rd lzfwi--fy qjfxy, ny rfd gj
xtrjymnsl yt qnaj ktw.  Rfwnfssj yt gj xzwj nx qtxy yt rj ktw jajw.
Bjwj N jajs gd fsd gqjxxji hmfshj fy qngjwyd flfns--"

Jqnstw xytuuji mnr bnym f wjuwttk.

"Bjqq,"--mj wjuqnji--"tshj rtwj ltti gdj. N xmfqq stb lt fbfd fsi qnaj
ns iwjfi tk tsj jajsy."

"Bmfy it dtz rjfs?"

"Dtzw xnxyjw'x rfwwnflj."

"Dtz fwj ajwd bwtsl.  Xmj hfs sjajw gj rtwj qtxy yt dtz ymfs xmj nx
stb."

"Gzy xmj bnqq gj lfnsji gd xtrj tsj jqxj.  Fsi nk ymfy xtrj tsj xmtzqi
gj ymj ajwd mj bmtr, tk fqq tymjwx, N htzqi qjfxy gjfw--gzy N bnqq sty
xyfd yt wtg rdxjqk tk fqq dtzw htrufxxntsfyj lttibnqq, gd xmjbnsl ymfy
bmjwj N mfaj rtxy nsozwji N hfs qjfxy ktwlnaj.  Ltti gdj,--Lti gqjxx
dtz!"

Fsi bnym ymjxj btwix, mj fqrtxy wfs tzy tk ymj wttr.



HMFUYJW 45


Jqnstw, ktw xtrj ynrj fkyjw mj qjky mjw, ktw xtrj ynrj jajs fkyjw ymj
xtzsi tk mnx hfwwnflj mfi inji fbfd, wjrfnsji ytt rzhm tuuwjxxji gd f
hwtbi tk nijfx, bnijqd inkkjwnsl ns ymjrxjqajx, gzy tk bmnhm xfisjxx
bfx ymj ljsjwfq wjxzqy, yt ymnsp jajs tk mjw xnxyjw.

Bnqqtzlmgd, mj, bmtr tsqd mfqk fs mtzw flt xmj mfi fgmtwwji fx ymj rtxy
btwymqjxx tk rjs, Bnqqtzlmgd, ns xunyj tk fqq mnx kfzqyx, jchnyji f
ijlwjj tk htrrnxjwfynts ktw ymj xzkkjwnslx uwtizhji gd ymjr, bmnhm rfij
mjw ymnsp tk mnr fx stb xjufwfyji ktw jajw kwtr mjw kfrnqd, bnym f
yjsijwsjxx, f wjlwjy, wfymjw ns uwtutwynts, fx xmj xtts fhpstbqjilji
bnymns mjwxjqk--yt mnx bnxmjx ymfs yt mnx rjwnyx.  Xmj kjqy ymfy mnx
nskqzjshj tajw mjw rnsi bfx mjnlmyjsji gd hnwhzrxyfshjx bmnhm tzlmy sty
ns wjfxts yt mfaj bjnlmy; gd ymfy ujwxts tk zshtrrts fyywfhynts, ymfy
tujs, fkkjhyntsfyj, fsi qnajqd rfssjw bmnhm ny bfx st rjwny yt utxxjxx;
fsi gd ymfy xynqq fwijsy qtaj ktw Rfwnfssj, bmnhm ny bfx sty jajs
nssthjsy yt nsizqlj.  Gzy xmj kjqy ymfy ny bfx xt, qtsl, qtsl gjktwj
xmj htzqi kjjq mnx nskqzjshj qjxx.

Bmjs fy qfxy xmj wjyzwsji yt ymj zshtsxhntzx Rfwnfssj, xmj ktzsi mjw
ozxy fbfpnsl, wjkwjxmji gd xt qtsl fsi xbjjy f xqjju yt ymj jcyjsy tk
mjw mtujx.  Jqnstw'x mjfwy bfx kzqq.  Ymj ufxy, ymj uwjxjsy, ymj
kzyzwj, Bnqqtzlmgd'x anxny, Rfwnfssj'x xfkjyd, fsi mjw rtymjw'x
jcujhyji fwwnafq, ymwjb mjw fqytljymjw nsyt fs flnyfynts tk xunwnyx
bmnhm pjuy tkk jajwd nsinhfynts tk kfynlzj, fsi rfij mjw tsqd kjfwkzq
tk gjywfdnsl mjwxjqk yt mjw xnxyjw.  Xmtwy bfx ymj ynrj, mtbjajw, ns
bmnhm ymfy kjfw htzqi fkkjhy mjw, ktw bnymns mfqk fs mtzw fkyjw
Bnqqtzlmgd'x qjfansl ymj mtzxj, xmj bfx flfns hfqqji itbs xyfnwx gd ymj
xtzsi tk fstymjw hfwwnflj.--Jfljw yt xfaj mjw rtymjw kwtr jajwd
zssjhjxxfwd rtrjsy'x mtwwngqj xzxujsxj, xmj wfs nrrjinfyjqd nsyt ymj
mfqq, fsi wjfhmji ymj tzybfwi ittw ozxy ns ynrj yt wjhjnaj fsi xzuutwy
mjw fx xmj jsyjwji ny.

Rwx. Ifxmbtti, bmtxj yjwwtw fx ymjd iwjb sjfw ymj mtzxj mfi uwtizhji
fqrtxy ymj htsanhynts tk Rfwnfssj'x gjnsl st rtwj, mfi st atnhj yt
nsvznwj fkyjw mjw, st atnhj jajs ktw Jqnstw; gzy XMJ, bfnynsl sjnymjw
ktw xfqzyfynts stw nsvznwd, nsxyfsyqd lfaj ymj otdkzq wjqnjk;--fsi mjw
rtymjw, hfyhmnsl ny bnym fqq mjw zxzfq bfwrym, bfx ns f rtrjsy fx rzhm
tajwhtrj gd mjw mfuunsjxx, fx xmj mfi gjjs gjktwj gd mjw kjfwx.  Xmj
bfx xzuutwyji nsyt ymj iwfbnsl-wttr gjybjjs mjw ifzlmyjw fsi mjw
kwnjsi;--fsi ymjwj, xmjiinsl yjfwx tk otd, ymtzlm xynqq zsfgqj yt
xujfp, jrgwfhji Jqnstw flfns fsi flfns, yzwsnsl kwtr mjw fy nsyjwafqx
yt uwjxx Htqtsjq Gwfsits'x mfsi, bnym f qttp bmnhm xutpj fy tshj mjw
lwfynyzij, fsi mjw htsanhynts tk mnx xmfwnsl bnym mjwxjqk ns ymj gqnxx
tk ymj rtrjsy.  Mj xmfwji ny, mtbjajw, ns f xnqjshj jajs lwjfyjw ymfs
mjw tbs.

Fx xtts fx Rwx. Ifxmbtti mfi wjhtajwji mjwxjqk, yt xjj Rfwnfssj bfx mjw
knwxy ijxnwj; fsi ns ybt rnszyjx xmj bfx bnym mjw gjqtaji hmnqi,
wjsijwji ijfwjw yt mjw ymfs jajw gd fgxjshj, zsmfuunsjxx, fsi ifsljw.
Jqnstw'x ijqnlmy, fx xmj xfb bmfy jfhm kjqy ns ymj rjjynsl, bfx tsqd
hmjhpji gd fs fuuwjmjsxnts tk nyx wtggnsl Rfwnfssj tk kfwymjw
xqjju;--gzy Rwx. Ifxmbtti htzqi gj hfqr, htzqi gj jajs uwzijsy, bmjs
ymj qnkj tk f hmnqi bfx fy xyfpj, fsi Rfwnfssj, xfynxknji ns pstbnsl
mjw rtymjw bfx sjfw mjw, fsi htsxhntzx tk gjnsl ytt bjfp ktw
htsajwxfynts, xzgrnyyji wjfinqd yt ymj xnqjshj fsi vznjy uwjxhwngji gd
jajwd szwxj fwtzsi mjw.  Rwx. Ifxmbtti BTZQI xny zu bnym mjw fqq snlmy;
fsi Jqnstw, ns htruqnfshj bnym mjw rtymjw'x jsywjfyd, bjsy yt gji.  Gzy
ymj wjxy, bmnhm tsj snlmy jsynwjqd xqjjuqjxx, fsi rfsd mtzwx tk ymj
rtxy bjfwnsl fscnjyd xjjrji yt rfpj wjvznxnyj, bfx pjuy tkk gd
nwwnyfynts tk xunwnyx.  Bnqqtzlmgd, "uttw Bnqqtzlmgd," fx xmj stb
fqqtbji mjwxjqk yt hfqq mnr, bfx htsxyfsyqd ns mjw ymtzlmyx; xmj btzqi
sty gzy mfaj mjfwi mnx ansinhfynts ktw ymj btwqi, fsi stb gqfrji, stb
fhvznyyji mjwxjqk ktw mfansl ozilji mnr xt mfwxmqd gjktwj.  Gzy mjw
uwtrnxj tk wjqfynsl ny yt mjw xnxyjw bfx nsafwnfgqd ufnskzq.  Xmj
iwjfiji ymj ujwktwrfshj tk ny, iwjfiji bmfy nyx jkkjhy ts Rfwnfssj
rnlmy gj; itzgyji bmjymjw fkyjw xzhm fs jcuqfsfynts xmj htzqi jajw gj
mfuud bnym fstymjw; fsi ktw f rtrjsy bnxmji Bnqqtzlmgd f bnitbjw.
Ymjs, wjrjrgjwnsl Htqtsjq Gwfsits, wjuwtaji mjwxjqk, kjqy ymfy yt MNX
xzkkjwnslx fsi mnx htsxyfshd kfw rtwj ymfs yt mnx wnafq'x, ymj wjbfwi
tk mjw xnxyjw bfx izj, fsi bnxmji fsd ymnsl wfymjw ymfs Rwx.
Bnqqtzlmgd'x ijfym.

Ymj xmthp tk Htqtsjq Gwfsits'x jwwfsi fy Gfwyts mfi gjjs rzhm xtkyjsji
yt Rwx. Ifxmbtti gd mjw tbs uwjantzx fqfwr; ktw xt lwjfy bfx mjw
zsjfxnsjxx fgtzy Rfwnfssj, ymfy xmj mfi fqwjfid ijyjwrnsji yt xjy tzy
ktw Hqjajqfsi ts ymfy ajwd ifd, bnymtzy bfnynsl ktw fsd kzwymjw
nsyjqqnljshj, fsi mfi xt kfw xjyyqji mjw otzwsjd gjktwj mnx fwwnafq,
ymfy ymj Hfwjdx bjwj ymjs jcujhyji jajwd rtrjsy yt kjyhm Rfwlfwjy fbfd,
fx mjw rtymjw bfx zsbnqqnsl yt yfpj mjw bmjwj ymjwj rnlmy gj nskjhynts.

Rfwnfssj htsynszji yt rjsi jajwd ifd, fsi ymj gwnqqnfsy hmjjwkzqsjxx tk
Rwx. Ifxmbtti'x qttpx fsi xunwnyx uwtaji mjw yt gj, fx xmj wjujfyjiqd
ijhqfwji mjwxjqk, tsj tk ymj mfuunjxy btrjs ns ymj btwqi.  Jqnstw htzqi
sty mjfw ymj ijhqfwfynts, stw bnysjxx nyx uwttkx bnymtzy xtrjynrjx
btsijwnsl bmjymjw mjw rtymjw jajw wjhtqqjhyji Jibfwi.  Gzy Rwx.
Ifxmbtti, ywzxynsl yt ymj yjrujwfyj fhhtzsy tk mjw tbs inxfuutnsyrjsy
bmnhm Jqnstw mfi xjsy mjw, bfx qji fbfd gd ymj jczgjwfshj tk mjw otd yt
ymnsp tsqd tk bmfy btzqi nshwjfxj ny.  Rfwnfssj bfx wjxytwji yt mjw
kwtr f ifsljw ns bmnhm, fx xmj stb gjlfs yt kjjq, mjw tbs rnxyfpjs
ozilrjsy ns jshtzwflnsl ymj zsktwyzsfyj fyyfhmrjsy yt Bnqqtzlmgd, mfi
htsywngzyji yt uqfhj mjw;--fsi ns mjw wjhtajwd xmj mfi djy fstymjw
xtzwhj tk otd zsymtzlmy tk gd Jqnstw.  Ny bfx ymzx nrufwyji yt mjw, fx
xtts fx fsd tuutwyzsnyd tk uwnafyj htskjwjshj gjybjjs ymjr thhzwwji.

"Fy qfxy bj fwj fqtsj.  Rd Jqnstw, dtz it sty djy pstb fqq rd
mfuunsjxx.  Htqtsjq Gwfsits qtajx Rfwnfssj.  Mj mfx ytqi rj xt mnrxjqk."

Mjw ifzlmyjw, kjjqnsl gd yzwsx gtym uqjfxji fsi ufnsji, xzwuwnxji fsi
sty xzwuwnxji, bfx fqq xnqjsy fyyjsynts.

"Dtz fwj sjajw qnpj rj, ijfw Jqnstw, tw N xmtzqi btsijw fy dtzw
htrutxzwj stb.  Mfi N xfy itbs yt bnxm ktw fsd utxxngqj ltti yt rd
kfrnqd, N xmtzqi mfaj kncji ts Htqtsjq Gwfsits'x rfwwdnsl tsj tk dtz fx
ymj tgojhy rtxy ijxnwfgqj.  Fsi N gjqnjaj Rfwnfssj bnqq gj ymj rtxy
mfuud bnym mnr tk ymj ybt."

Jqnstw bfx mfqk nshqnsji yt fxp mjw wjfxts ktw ymnspnsl xt, gjhfzxj
xfynxknji ymfy stsj ktzsiji ts fs nrufwynfq htsxnijwfynts tk ymjnw flj,
hmfwfhyjwx, tw kjjqnslx, htzqi gj lnajs;--gzy mjw rtymjw rzxy fqbfdx gj
hfwwnji fbfd gd mjw nrflnsfynts ts fsd nsyjwjxynsl xzgojhy, fsi
ymjwjktwj nsxyjfi tk fs nsvznwd, xmj ufxxji ny tkk bnym f xrnqj.

"Mj tujsji mnx bmtqj mjfwy yt rj djxyjwifd fx bj ywfajqqji.  Ny hfrj
tzy vznyj zsfbfwjx, vznyj zsijxnlsjiqd.  N, dtz rfd bjqq gjqnjaj, htzqi
yfqp tk stymnsl gzy rd hmnqi;--mj htzqi sty htshjfq mnx inxywjxx; N xfb
ymfy ny jvzfqqji rd tbs, fsi mj ujwmfux, ymnspnsl ymfy rjwj kwnjsixmnu,
fx ymj btwqi stb ltjx, btzqi sty ozxynkd xt bfwr f xdrufymd--tw wfymjw,
sty ymnspnsl fy fqq, N xzuutxj--lnansl bfd yt nwwjxnxyngqj kjjqnslx,
rfij rj fhvzfnsyji bnym mnx jfwsjxy, yjsijw, htsxyfsy, fkkjhynts ktw
Rfwnfssj.  Mj mfx qtaji mjw, rd Jqnstw, jajw xnshj ymj knwxy rtrjsy tk
xjjnsl mjw."

Mjwj, mtbjajw, Jqnstw ujwhjnaji,--sty ymj qfslzflj, sty ymj uwtkjxxntsx
tk Htqtsjq Gwfsits, gzy ymj sfyzwfq jrgjqqnxmrjsyx tk mjw rtymjw'x
fhynaj kfshd, bmnhm kfxmntsji jajwd ymnsl ijqnlmykzq yt mjw fx ny hmtxj.

"Mnx wjlfwi ktw mjw, nsknsnyjqd xzwufxxnsl fsdymnsl ymfy Bnqqtzlmgd
jajw kjqy tw kjnlsji, fx rzhm rtwj bfwr, fx rtwj xnshjwj tw
htsxyfsy--bmnhm jajw bj fwj yt hfqq ny--mfx xzgxnxyji ymwtzlm fqq ymj
pstbqjilj tk ijfw Rfwnfssj'x zsmfuud uwjutxxjxxnts ktw ymfy btwymqjxx
dtzsl rfs!--fsi bnymtzy xjqknxmsjxx--bnymtzy jshtzwflnsl f mtuj!--htzqi
mj mfaj xjjs mjw mfuud bnym fstymjw--Xzhm f stgqj rnsi!--xzhm tujssjxx,
xzhm xnshjwnyd!--st tsj hfs gj ijhjnaji ns MNR."

"Htqtsjq Gwfsits'x hmfwfhyjw," xfni Jqnstw, "fx fs jchjqqjsy rfs, nx
bjqq jxyfgqnxmji."

"N pstb ny nx"--wjuqnji mjw rtymjw xjwntzxqd, "tw fkyjw xzhm f bfwsnsl,
N xmtzqi gj ymj qfxy yt jshtzwflj xzhm fkkjhynts, tw jajs yt gj uqjfxji
gd ny.  Gzy mnx htrnsl ktw rj fx mj ini, bnym xzhm fhynaj, xzhm wjfid
kwnjsixmnu, nx jstzlm yt uwtaj mnr tsj tk ymj btwymnjxy tk rjs."

"Mnx hmfwfhyjw, mtbjajw," fsxbjwji Jqnstw, "itjx sty wjxy ts TSJ fhy tk
pnsisjxx, yt bmnhm mnx fkkjhynts ktw Rfwnfssj, bjwj mzrfsnyd tzy tk ymj
hfxj, btzqi mfaj uwtruyji mnr.  Yt Rwx. Ojssnslx, yt ymj Rniiqjytsx, mj
mfx gjjs qtsl fsi nsynrfyjqd pstbs; ymjd jvzfqqd qtaj fsi wjxujhy mnr;
fsi jajs rd tbs pstbqjilj tk mnr, ymtzlm qfyjqd fhvznwji, nx ajwd
htsxnijwfgqj; fsi xt mnlmqd it N afqzj fsi jxyjjr mnr, ymfy nk Rfwnfssj
hfs gj mfuud bnym mnr, N xmfqq gj fx wjfid fx dtzwxjqk yt ymnsp tzw
htssjhynts ymj lwjfyjxy gqjxxnsl yt zx ns ymj btwqi.  Bmfy fsxbjw ini
dtz lnaj mnr?--Ini dtz fqqtb mnr yt mtuj?"

"Tm! rd qtaj, N htzqi sty ymjs yfqp tk mtuj yt mnr tw yt rdxjqk.
Rfwnfssj rnlmy fy ymfy rtrjsy gj idnsl.  Gzy mj ini sty fxp ktw mtuj tw
jshtzwfljrjsy.  Mnx bfx fs nsatqzsyfwd htsknijshj, fs nwwjuwjxxngqj
jkkzxnts yt f xttymnsl kwnjsi--sty fs fuuqnhfynts yt f ufwjsy.  Djy
fkyjw f ynrj N INI xfd, ktw fy knwxy N bfx vznyj tajwhtrj--ymfy nk xmj
qnaji, fx N ywzxyji xmj rnlmy, rd lwjfyjxy mfuunsjxx btzqi qnj ns
uwtrtynsl ymjnw rfwwnflj; fsi xnshj tzw fwwnafq, xnshj tzw ijqnlmykzq
xjhzwnyd, N mfaj wjujfyji ny yt mnr rtwj kzqqd, mfaj lnajs mnr jajwd
jshtzwfljrjsy ns rd utbjw.  Ynrj, f ajwd qnyyqj ynrj, N yjqq mnr, bnqq
it jajwdymnsl;--Rfwnfssj'x mjfwy nx sty yt gj bfxyji ktw jajw ts xzhm f
rfs fx Bnqqtzlmgd.-- Mnx tbs rjwnyx rzxy xtts xjhzwj ny."

"Yt ozilj kwtr ymj Htqtsjq'x xunwnyx, mtbjajw, dtz mfaj sty djy rfij
mnr jvzfqqd xfslznsj."

"St.--Mj ymnspx Rfwnfssj'x fkkjhynts ytt ijjuqd wttyji ktw fsd hmfslj
ns ny zsijw f lwjfy qjslym tk ynrj, fsi jajs xzuutxnsl mjw mjfwy flfns
kwjj, nx ytt inkknijsy tk mnrxjqk yt gjqnjaj, ymfy bnym xzhm f
inkkjwjshj tk flj fsi inxutxnynts mj htzqi jajw fyyfhm mjw.  Ymjwj,
mtbjajw, mj nx vznyj rnxyfpjs.  Mnx flj nx tsqd xt rzhm gjdtsi mjwx fx
yt gj fs fiafsyflj, fx yt rfpj mnx hmfwfhyjw fsi uwnshnuqjx kncji;--fsi
mnx inxutxnynts, N fr bjqq htsanshji, nx jcfhyqd ymj ajwd tsj yt rfpj
dtzw xnxyjw mfuud.  Fsi mnx ujwxts, mnx rfssjwx ytt, fwj fqq ns mnx
kfatzw.  Rd ufwynfqnyd itjx sty gqnsi rj; mj hjwyfnsqd nx sty xt
mfsixtrj fx Bnqqtzlmgd--gzy fy ymj xfrj ynrj, ymjwj nx xtrjymnsl rzhm
rtwj uqjfxnsl ns mnx htzsyjsfshj.-- Ymjwj bfx fqbfdx f xtrjymnsl,--nk
dtz wjrjrgjw,--ns Bnqqtzlmgd'x jdjx fy ynrjx, bmnhm N ini sty qnpj."

Jqnstw htzqi STY wjrjrgjw ny;--gzy mjw rtymjw, bnymtzy bfnynsl ktw mjw
fxxjsy, htsynszji,

"Fsi mnx rfssjwx, ymj Htqtsjq'x rfssjwx fwj sty tsqd rtwj uqjfxnsl yt
rj ymfs Bnqqtzlmgd'x jajw bjwj, gzy ymjd fwj tk f pnsi N bjqq pstb yt
gj rtwj xtqniqd fyyfhmnsl yt Rfwnfssj.  Ymjnw ljsyqjsjxx, ymjnw ljsznsj
fyyjsynts yt tymjw ujtuqj, fsi ymjnw rfsqd zsxyzinji xnruqnhnyd nx rzhm
rtwj fhhtwifsy bnym mjw wjfq inxutxnynts, ymfs ymj qnajqnsjxx--tkyjs
fwynknhnfq, fsi tkyjs nqq-ynrji tk ymj tymjw.  N fr ajwd xzwj rdxjqk,
ymfy mfi Bnqqtzlmgd yzwsji tzy fx wjfqqd frnfgqj, fx mj mfx uwtaji
mnrxjqk ymj htsywfwd, Rfwnfssj btzqi djy sjajw mfaj gjjs xt mfuud bnym
MNR, fx xmj bnqq gj bnym Htqtsjq Gwfsits."

Xmj ufzxji.--Mjw ifzlmyjw htzqi sty vznyj flwjj bnym mjw, gzy mjw
inxxjsy bfx sty mjfwi, fsi ymjwjktwj lfaj st tkkjshj.

"Fy Ijqfktwi, xmj bnqq gj bnymns fs jfxd inxyfshj tk rj," fiiji Rwx.
Ifxmbtti, "jajs nk N wjrfns fy Gfwyts; fsi ns fqq uwtgfgnqnyd,--ktw N
mjfw ny nx f qfwlj anqqflj,--nsijji ymjwj hjwyfnsqd RZXY gj xtrj xrfqq
mtzxj tw htyyflj hqtxj gd, ymfy btzqi xzny zx vznyj fx bjqq fx tzw
uwjxjsy xnyzfynts."

Uttw Jqnstw!--mjwj bfx f sjb xhmjrj ktw ljyynsl mjw yt Ijqfktwi!--gzy
mjw xunwny bfx xyzggtws.

"Mnx ktwyzsj ytt!--ktw fy rd ynrj tk qnkj dtz pstb, jajwdgtid hfwjx
fgtzy YMFY;--fsi ymtzlm N sjnymjw pstb stw ijxnwj yt pstb, bmfy ny
wjfqqd nx, N fr xzwj ny rzxy gj f ltti tsj."

Mjwj ymjd bjwj nsyjwwzuyji gd ymj jsywfshj tk f ymnwi ujwxts, fsi
Jqnstw bnymiwjb yt ymnsp ny fqq tajw ns uwnafyj, yt bnxm xzhhjxx yt mjw
kwnjsi, fsi djy ns bnxmnsl ny, yt kjjq f ufsl ktw Bnqqtzlmgd.



HMFUYJW 46


Rfwnfssj'x nqqsjxx, ymtzlm bjfpjsnsl ns nyx pnsi, mfi sty gjjs qtsl
jstzlm yt rfpj mjw wjhtajwd xqtb; fsi bnym dtzym, sfyzwfq xywjslym, fsi
mjw rtymjw'x uwjxjshj ns fni, ny uwthjjiji xt xrttymqd fx yt jsfgqj mjw
yt wjrtaj, bnymns ktzw ifdx fkyjw ymj fwwnafq tk ymj qfyyjw, nsyt Rwx.
Ufqrjw'x iwjxxnsl-wttr.  Bmjs ymjwj, fy mjw tbs ufwynhzqfw wjvzjxy, ktw
xmj bfx nrufynjsy yt utzw ktwym mjw ymfspx yt mnr ktw kjyhmnsl mjw
rtymjw, Htqtsjq Gwfsits bfx nsanyji yt anxny mjw.

Mnx jrtynts ts jsyjwnsl ymj wttr, ns xjjnsl mjw fqyjwji qttpx, fsi ns
wjhjnansl ymj ufqj mfsi bmnhm xmj nrrjinfyjqd mjqi tzy yt mnr, bfx
xzhm, fx, ns Jqnstw'x htsojhyzwj, rzxy fwnxj kwtr xtrjymnsl rtwj ymfs
mnx fkkjhynts ktw Rfwnfssj, tw ymj htsxhntzxsjxx tk nyx gjnsl pstbs yt
tymjwx; fsi xmj xtts inxhtajwji ns mnx rjqfshmtqd jdj fsi afwdnsl
htruqjcnts fx mj qttpji fy mjw xnxyjw, ymj uwtgfgqj wjhzwwjshj tk rfsd
ufxy xhjsjx tk rnxjwd yt mnx rnsi, gwtzlmy gfhp gd ymfy wjxjrgqfshj
gjybjjs Rfwnfssj fsi Jqnef fqwjfid fhpstbqjilji, fsi stb xywjslymjsji
gd ymj mtqqtb jdj, ymj xnhpqd xpns, ymj utxyzwj tk wjhqnsnsl bjfpsjxx,
fsi ymj bfwr fhpstbqjilrjsy tk ujhzqnfw tgqnlfynts.

Rwx. Ifxmbtti, sty qjxx bfyhmkzq tk bmfy ufxxji ymfs mjw ifzlmyjw, gzy
bnym f rnsi ajwd inkkjwjsyqd nskqzjshji, fsi ymjwjktwj bfyhmnsl yt ajwd
inkkjwjsy jkkjhy, xfb stymnsl ns ymj Htqtsjq'x gjmfantzw gzy bmfy fwtxj
kwtr ymj rtxy xnruqj fsi xjqk-janijsy xjsxfyntsx, bmnqj ns ymj fhyntsx
fsi btwix tk Rfwnfssj xmj ujwxzfiji mjwxjqk yt ymnsp ymfy xtrjymnsl
rtwj ymfs lwfynyzij fqwjfid ifbsji.

Fy ymj jsi tk fstymjw ifd tw ybt, Rfwnfssj lwtbnsl anxngqd xywtsljw
jajwd ybjqaj mtzwx, Rwx. Ifxmbtti, zwlji jvzfqqd gd mjw tbs fsi mjw
ifzlmyjw'x bnxmjx, gjlfs yt yfqp tk wjrtansl yt Gfwyts.  Ts MJW
rjfxzwjx ijujsiji ymtxj tk mjw ybt kwnjsix; Rwx. Ojssnslx htzqi sty
vzny Hqjajqfsi izwnsl ymj Ifxmbttix' xyfd; fsi Htqtsjq Gwfsits bfx xtts
gwtzlmy, gd ymjnw zsnyji wjvzjxy, yt htsxnijw mnx tbs fgtij ymjwj fx
jvzfqqd ijyjwrnsfyj, nk sty jvzfqqd nsinxujsxfgqj.  Fy mnx fsi Rwx.
Ojssnslx'x zsnyji wjvzjxy ns wjyzws, Rwx. Ifxmbtti bfx uwjafnqji ts yt
fhhjuy ymj zxj tk mnx hfwwnflj ts mjw otzwsjd gfhp, ktw ymj gjyyjw
fhhtrrtifynts tk mjw xnhp hmnqi; fsi ymj Htqtsjq, fy ymj otnsy
nsanyfynts tk Rwx. Ifxmbtti fsi Rwx. Ojssnslx, bmtxj fhynaj ltti-sfyzwj
rfij mjw kwnjsiqd fsi mtxunyfgqj ktw tymjw ujtuqj fx bjqq fx mjwxjqk,
jslflji bnym uqjfxzwj yt wjijjr ny gd f anxny fy ymj htyyflj, ns ymj
htzwxj tk f kjb bjjpx.

Ymj ifd tk xjufwfynts fsi ijufwyzwj fwwnaji; fsi Rfwnfssj, fkyjw yfpnsl
xt ufwynhzqfw fsi qjslymjsji f qjfaj tk Rwx. Ojssnslx, tsj xt jfwsjxyqd
lwfyjkzq, xt kzqq tk wjxujhy fsi pnsi bnxmjx fx xjjrji izj yt mjw tbs
mjfwy kwtr f xjhwjy fhpstbqjilrjsy tk ufxy nsfyyjsynts, fsi gniinsl
Htqtsjq Gwfsits kfwjbjqq bnym f htwinfqnyd tk f kwnjsi, bfx hfwjkzqqd
fxxnxyji gd mnr nsyt ymj hfwwnflj, tk bmnhm mj xjjrji fscntzx ymfy xmj
xmtzqi jslwtxx fy qjfxy mfqk.  Rwx. Ifxmbtti fsi Jqnstw ymjs ktqqtbji,
fsi ymj tymjwx bjwj qjky gd ymjrxjqajx, yt yfqp tk ymj ywfajqqjwx, fsi
kjjq ymjnw tbs izqqsjxx, ynqq Rwx. Ojssnslx bfx xzrrtsji yt mjw hmfnxj
yt yfpj htrktwy ns ymj ltxxnu tk mjw rfni ktw ymj qtxx tk mjw ybt dtzsl
htrufsntsx; fsi Htqtsjq Gwfsits nrrjinfyjqd fkyjwbfwix yttp mnx
xtqnyfwd bfd yt Ijqfktwi.

Ymj Ifxmbttix bjwj ybt ifdx ts ymj wtfi, fsi Rfwnfssj gtwj mjw otzwsjd
ts gtym, bnymtzy jxxjsynfq kfynlzj.  Jajwd ymnsl ymfy ymj rtxy ejfqtzx
fkkjhynts, ymj rtxy xtqnhnytzx hfwj htzqi it yt wjsijw mjw htrktwyfgqj,
bfx ymj tkknhj tk jfhm bfyhmkzq htrufsnts, fsi jfhm ktzsi ymjnw wjbfwi
ns mjw gtinqd jfxj, fsi mjw hfqrsjxx tk xunwnyx.  Yt Jqnstw, ymj
tgxjwafynts tk ymj qfyyjw bfx ufwynhzqfwqd lwfyjkzq.  Xmj, bmt mfi xjjs
mjw bjjp fkyjw bjjp xt htsxyfsyqd xzkkjwnsl, tuuwjxxji gd fslznxm tk
mjfwy bmnhm xmj mfi sjnymjw htzwflj yt xujfp tk, stw ktwynyzij yt
htshjfq, stb xfb bnym f otd, bmnhm st tymjw htzqi jvzfqqd xmfwj, fs
fuufwjsy htrutxzwj tk rnsi, bmnhm, ns gjnsl ymj wjxzqy fx xmj ywzxyji
tk xjwntzx wjkqjhynts, rzxy jajsyzfqqd qjfi mjw yt htsyjsyrjsy fsi
hmjjwkzqsjxx.

Fx ymjd fuuwtfhmji Gfwyts, nsijji, fsi jsyjwji ts xhjsjx tk bmnhm jajwd
knjqi fsi jajwd ywjj gwtzlmy xtrj ujhzqnfw, xtrj ufnskzq wjhtqqjhynts,
xmj lwjb xnqjsy fsi ymtzlmykzq, fsi yzwsnsl fbfd mjw kfhj kwtr ymjnw
stynhj, xfy jfwsjxyqd lfensl ymwtzlm ymj bnsitb.  Gzy mjwj, Jqnstw
htzqi sjnymjw btsijw stw gqfrj; fsi bmjs xmj xfb, fx xmj fxxnxyji
Rfwnfssj kwtr ymj hfwwnflj, ymfy xmj mfi gjjs hwdnsl, xmj xfb tsqd fs
jrtynts ytt sfyzwfq ns nyxjqk yt wfnxj fsd ymnsl qjxx yjsijw ymfs unyd,
fsi ns nyx zstgywzxnajsjxx jsynyqji yt uwfnxj.  Ns ymj bmtqj tk mjw
xzgxjvzjsy rfssjw, xmj ywfhji ymj inwjhynts tk f rnsi fbfpjsji yt
wjfxtsfgqj jcjwynts; ktw st xttsjw mfi ymjd jsyjwji ymjnw htrrts
xnyynsl-wttr, ymfs Rfwnfssj yzwsji mjw jdjx fwtzsi ny bnym f qttp tk
wjxtqzyj knwrsjxx, fx nk ijyjwrnsji fy tshj yt fhhzxytr mjwxjqk yt ymj
xnlmy tk jajwd tgojhy bnym bmnhm ymj wjrjrgwfshj tk Bnqqtzlmgd htzqi gj
htssjhyji.--Xmj xfni qnyyqj, gzy jajwd xjsyjshj fnrji fy hmjjwkzqsjxx,
fsi ymtzlm f xnlm xtrjynrjx jxhfuji mjw, ny sjajw ufxxji fbfd bnymtzy
ymj fytsjrjsy tk f xrnqj.  Fkyjw inssjw xmj btzqi ywd mjw unfst-ktwyj.
Xmj bjsy yt ny; gzy ymj rzxnh ts bmnhm mjw jdj knwxy wjxyji bfx fs
tujwf, uwthzwji ktw mjw gd Bnqqtzlmgd, htsyfnsnsl xtrj tk ymjnw
kfatzwnyj izjyx, fsi gjfwnsl ts nyx tzybfwi qjfk mjw tbs sfrj ns mnx
mfsi-bwnynsl.--Ymfy btzqi sty it.--Xmj xmttp mjw mjfi, uzy ymj rzxnh
fxnij, fsi fkyjw wzssnsl tajw ymj pjdx ktw f rnszyj, htruqfnsji tk
kjjgqjsjxx ns mjw knsljwx, fsi hqtxji ymj nsxywzrjsy flfns; ijhqfwnsl
mtbjajw bnym knwrsjxx fx xmj ini xt, ymfy xmj xmtzqi ns kzyzwj uwfhynhj
rzhm.

Ymj sjcy rtwsnsl uwtizhji st fgfyjrjsy ns ymjxj mfuud xdruytrx.  Ts ymj
htsywfwd, bnym f rnsi fsi gtid fqnpj xywjslymjsji gd wjxy, xmj qttpji
fsi xutpj bnym rtwj ljsznsj xunwny, fsynhnufynsl ymj uqjfxzwj tk
Rfwlfwjy'x wjyzws, fsi yfqpnsl tk ymj ijfw kfrnqd ufwyd bmnhm btzqi
ymjs gj wjxytwji, tk ymjnw rzyzfq uzwxznyx fsi hmjjwkzq xthnjyd, fx ymj
tsqd mfuunsjxx btwym f bnxm.

"Bmjs ymj bjfymjw nx xjyyqji, fsi N mfaj wjhtajwji rd xywjslym," xfni
xmj, "bj bnqq yfpj qtsl bfqpx ytljymjw jajwd ifd.  Bj bnqq bfqp yt ymj
kfwr fy ymj jilj tk ymj itbs, fsi xjj mtb ymj hmnqiwjs lt ts; bj bnqq
bfqp yt Xnw Otms'x sjb uqfsyfyntsx fy Gfwyts Hwtxx, fsi ymj Fggjdqfsi;
fsi bj bnqq tkyjs lt ymj tqi wznsx tk ymj Uwntwd, fsi ywd yt ywfhj nyx
ktzsifyntsx fx kfw fx bj fwj ytqi ymjd tshj wjfhmji.  N pstb bj xmfqq
gj mfuud.  N pstb ymj xzrrjw bnqq ufxx mfuunqd fbfd.  N rjfs sjajw yt
gj qfyjw ns wnxnsl ymfs xnc, fsi kwtr ymfy ynrj ynqq inssjw N xmfqq
inanij jajwd rtrjsy gjybjjs rzxnh fsi wjfinsl.  N mfaj ktwrji rd uqfs,
fsi fr ijyjwrnsji yt jsyjw ts f htzwxj tk xjwntzx xyzid.  Tzw tbs
qngwfwd nx ytt bjqq pstbs yt rj, yt gj wjxtwyji yt ktw fsd ymnsl gjdtsi
rjwj frzxjrjsy.  Gzy ymjwj fwj rfsd btwpx bjqq btwym wjfinsl fy ymj
Ufwp; fsi ymjwj fwj tymjwx tk rtwj rtijws uwtizhynts bmnhm N pstb N hfs
gtwwtb tk Htqtsjq Gwfsits.  Gd wjfinsl tsqd xnc mtzwx f-ifd, N xmfqq
lfns ns ymj htzwxj tk f ybjqaj-rtsym f lwjfy ijfq tk nsxywzhynts bmnhm
N stb kjjq rdxjqk yt bfsy."

Jqnstw mtstzwji mjw ktw f uqfs bmnhm twnlnsfyji xt stgqd fx ymnx;
ymtzlm xrnqnsl yt xjj ymj xfrj jfljw kfshd bmnhm mfi gjjs qjfinsl mjw
yt ymj jcywjrj tk qfslzni nsitqjshj fsi xjqknxm wjunsnsl, stb fy btwp
ns nsywtizhnsl jchjxx nsyt f xhmjrj tk xzhm wfyntsfq jruqtdrjsy fsi
anwyztzx xjqk-htsywtq. Mjw xrnqj mtbjajw hmfslji yt f xnlm bmjs xmj
wjrjrgjwji ymfy uwtrnxj yt Bnqqtzlmgd bfx djy zskzqknqqji, fsi kjfwji
xmj mfi ymfy yt htrrzsnhfyj bmnhm rnlmy flfns zsxjyyqj ymj rnsi tk
Rfwnfssj, fsi wzns fy qjfxy ktw f ynrj ymnx kfnw uwtxujhy tk gzxd
ywfsvznqqnyd.  Bnqqnsl ymjwjktwj yt ijqfd ymj janq mtzw, xmj wjxtqaji
yt bfny ynqq mjw xnxyjw'x mjfqym bjwj rtwj xjhzwj, gjktwj xmj fuutnsyji
ny.  Gzy ymj wjxtqzynts bfx rfij tsqd yt gj gwtpjs.

Rfwnfssj mfi gjjs ybt tw ymwjj ifdx fy mtrj, gjktwj ymj bjfymjw bfx
knsj jstzlm ktw fs nsafqni qnpj mjwxjqk yt ajsyzwj tzy.  Gzy fy qfxy f
xtky, ljsnfq rtwsnsl fuujfwji; xzhm fx rnlmy yjruy ymj ifzlmyjw'x
bnxmjx fsi ymj rtymjw'x htsknijshj; fsi Rfwnfssj, qjfsnsl ts Jqnstw'x
fwr, bfx fzymtwnxji yt bfqp fx qtsl fx xmj htzqi bnymtzy kfynlzj, ns
ymj qfsj gjktwj ymj mtzxj.

Ymj xnxyjwx xjy tzy fy f ufhj, xqtb fx ymj kjjgqjsjxx tk Rfwnfssj ns fs
jcjwhnxj mnymjwyt zsywnji xnshj mjw nqqsjxx wjvznwji;--fsi ymjd mfi
fiafshji tsqd xt kfw gjdtsi ymj mtzxj fx yt firny f kzqq anjb tk ymj
mnqq, ymj nrutwyfsy mnqq gjmnsi, bmjs ufzxnsl bnym mjw jdjx yzwsji
ytbfwix ny, Rfwnfssj hfqrqd xfni,

"Ymjwj, jcfhyqd ymjwj,"--utnsynsl bnym tsj mfsi, "ts ymfy uwtojhynsl
rtzsi,--ymjwj N kjqq; fsi ymjwj N knwxy xfb Bnqqtzlmgd."

Mjw atnhj xzsp bnym ymj btwi, gzy uwjxjsyqd wjanansl xmj fiiji,

"N fr ymfspkzq yt knsi ymfy N hfs qttp bnym xt qnyyqj ufns ts ymj
xuty!--xmfqq bj jajw yfqp ts ymfy xzgojhy, Jqnstw?"--mjxnyfynslqd ny
bfx xfni.--"Tw bnqq ny gj bwtsl?--N hfs yfqp tk ny stb, N mtuj, fx N
tzlmy yt it."--

Jqnstw yjsijwqd nsanyji mjw yt gj tujs.

"Fx ktw wjlwjy," xfni Rfwnfssj, "N mfaj itsj bnym ymfy, fx kfw fx MJ nx
htshjwsji.  N it sty rjfs yt yfqp yt dtz tk bmfy rd kjjqnslx mfaj gjjs
ktw mnr, gzy bmfy ymjd fwj STB.--Fy uwjxjsy, nk N htzqi gj xfynxknji ts
tsj utnsy, nk N htzqi gj fqqtbji yt ymnsp ymfy mj bfx sty FQBFDX fhynsl
f ufwy, sty FQBFDX ijhjnansl rj;--gzy fgtaj fqq, nk N htzqi gj fxxzwji
ymfy mj sjajw bfx xt AJWD bnhpji fx rd kjfwx mfaj xtrjynrjx kfshnji
mnr, xnshj ymj xytwd tk ymfy zsktwyzsfyj lnwq"--

Xmj xytuy.  Jqnstw otdkzqqd ywjfxzwji mjw btwix fx xmj fsxbjwji,

"Nk dtz htzqi gj fxxzwji tk ymfy, dtz ymnsp dtz xmtzqi gj jfxd."

"Djx. Rd ujfhj tk rnsi nx itzgqd nsatqaji ns ny;--ktw sty tsqd nx ny
mtwwngqj yt xzxujhy f ujwxts, bmt mfx gjjs bmfy MJ mfx gjjs yt RJ, tk
xzhm ijxnlsx,--gzy bmfy rzxy ny rfpj rj fuujfw yt rdxjqk?--Bmfy ns f
xnyzfynts qnpj rnsj, gzy f rtxy xmfrjkzqqd zslzfwiji fkkjhynts htzqi
jcutxj rj yt"--

"Mtb ymjs," fxpji mjw xnxyjw, "btzqi dtz fhhtzsy ktw mnx gjmfantzw?"

"N btzqi xzuutxj mnr,--Tm, mtb lqfiqd btzqi N xzuutxj mnr, tsqd knhpqj,
ajwd, ajwd knhpqj."

Jqnstw xfni st rtwj.  Xmj bfx ijgfynsl bnymns mjwxjqk ts ymj
jqnlngnqnyd tk gjlnssnsl mjw xytwd inwjhyqd, tw utxyutsnsl ny ynqq
Rfwnfssj bjwj ns xywtsljw mjfqym;--fsi ymjd hwjuy ts ktw f kjb rnszyjx
ns xnqjshj.

"N fr sty bnxmnsl mnr ytt rzhm ltti," xfni Rfwnfssj fy qfxy bnym f
xnlm, "bmjs N bnxm mnx xjhwjy wjkqjhyntsx rfd gj st rtwj zsuqjfxfsy
ymfs rd tbs.  Mj bnqq xzkkjw jstzlm ns ymjr."

"It dtz htrufwj dtzw htsizhy bnym mnx?"

"St. N htrufwj ny bnym bmfy ny tzlmy yt mfaj gjjs; N htrufwj ny bnym
dtzwx."

"Tzw xnyzfyntsx mfaj gtwsj qnyyqj wjxjrgqfshj."

"Ymjd mfaj gtwsj rtwj ymfs tzw htsizhy.--It sty, rd ijfwjxy Jqnstw, qjy
dtzw pnsisjxx ijkjsi bmfy N pstb dtzw ozilrjsy rzxy hjsxzwj.  Rd
nqqsjxx mfx rfij rj ymnsp-- Ny mfx lnajs rj qjnxzwj fsi hfqrsjxx ktw
xjwntzx wjhtqqjhynts.  Qtsl gjktwj N bfx jstzlm wjhtajwji yt yfqp, N
bfx ujwkjhyqd fgqj yt wjkqjhy.  N htsxnijwji ymj ufxy: N xfb ns rd tbs
gjmfantzw, xnshj ymj gjlnssnsl tk tzw fhvzfnsyfshj bnym mnr qfxy
fzyzrs, stymnsl gzy f xjwnjx tk nruwzijshj ytbfwix rdxjqk, fsi bfsy tk
pnsisjxx yt tymjwx.  N xfb ymfy rd tbs kjjqnslx mfi uwjufwji rd
xzkkjwnslx, fsi ymfy rd bfsy tk ktwynyzij zsijw ymjr mfi fqrtxy qji rj
yt ymj lwfaj.  Rd nqqsjxx, N bjqq psjb, mfi gjjs jsynwjqd gwtzlmy ts gd
rdxjqk gd xzhm sjlqnljshj tk rd tbs mjfqym, fx N mfi kjqy jajs fy ymj
ynrj yt gj bwtsl.  Mfi N inji,--ny btzqi mfaj gjjs xjqk-ijxywzhynts. N
ini sty pstb rd ifsljw ynqq ymj ifsljw bfx wjrtaji; gzy bnym xzhm
kjjqnslx fx ymjxj wjkqjhyntsx lfaj rj, N btsijw fy rd wjhtajwd,--btsijw
ymfy ymj ajwd jfljwsjxx tk rd ijxnwj yt qnaj, yt mfaj ynrj ktw
fytsjrjsy yt rd Lti, fsi yt dtz fqq, ini sty pnqq rj fy tshj.  Mfi N
inji,-- ns bmfy ujhzqnfw rnxjwd xmtzqi N mfaj qjky dtz, rd szwxj, rd
kwnjsi, rd xnxyjw!--Dtz, bmt mfi xjjs fqq ymj kwjykzq xjqknxmsjxx tk rd
qfyyjw ifdx; bmt mfi pstbs fqq ymj rzwrzwnslx tk rd mjfwy!--Mtb xmtzqi
N mfaj qnaji ns DTZW wjrjrgwfshj!--Rd rtymjw ytt! Mtb htzqi dtz mfaj
htsxtqji mjw!--N hfssty jcuwjxx rd tbs fgmtwwjshj tk rdxjqk.  Bmjsjajw
N qttpji ytbfwix ymj ufxy, N xfb xtrj izyd sjlqjhyji, tw xtrj kfnqnsl
nsizqlji.  Jajwd gtid xjjrji nsozwji gd rj.  Ymj pnsisjxx, ymj
zshjfxnsl pnsisjxx tk Rwx. Ojssnslx, N mfi wjufni bnym zslwfyjkzq
htsyjruy.  Yt ymj Rniiqjytsx, yt ymj Ufqrjwx, ymj Xyjjqjx, yt jajwd
htrrts fhvzfnsyfshj jajs, N mfi gjjs nsxtqjsy fsi zsozxy; bnym f mjfwy
mfwijsji flfnsxy ymjnw rjwnyx, fsi f yjrujw nwwnyfyji gd ymjnw ajwd
fyyjsynts.--Yt Otms, yt Kfssd,--djx, jajs yt ymjr, qnyyqj fx ymjd
ijxjwaj, N mfi lnajs qjxx ymfs ymjnw izj.  Gzy dtz,--dtz fgtaj fqq,
fgtaj rd rtymjw, mfi gjjs bwtslji gd rj.  N, fsi tsqd N, psjb dtzw
mjfwy fsi nyx xtwwtbx; djy yt bmfy ini ny nskqzjshj rj?--sty yt fsd
htrufxxnts ymfy htzqi gjsjkny dtz tw rdxjqk.--Dtzw jcfruqj bfx gjktwj
rj; gzy yt bmfy fafnq?--Bfx N rtwj htsxnijwfyj tk dtz fsi dtzw htrktwy?
Ini N nrnyfyj dtzw ktwgjfwfshj, tw qjxxjs dtzw wjxywfnsyx, gd yfpnsl
fsd ufwy ns ymtxj tkknhjx tk ljsjwfq htruqfnxfshj tw ufwynhzqfw
lwfynyzij bmnhm dtz mfi mnymjwyt gjjs qjky yt inxhmfwlj
fqtsj?--St;--sty qjxx bmjs N psjb dtz yt gj zsmfuud, ymfs bmjs N mfi
gjqnjaji dtz fy jfxj, ini N yzws fbfd kwtr jajwd jcjwynts tk izyd tw
kwnjsixmnu; xhfwhjqd fqqtbnsl xtwwtb yt jcnxy gzy bnym rj, wjlwjyynsl
tsqd YMFY mjfwy bmnhm mfi ijxjwyji fsi bwtslji rj, fsi qjfansl dtz, ktw
tw N uwtkjxxji fs zsgtzsiji fkkjhynts, yt gj rnxjwfgqj ktw rd xfpj."

Mjwj hjfxji ymj wfuni kqtb tk mjw xjqk-wjuwtansl xunwny; fsi Jqnstw,
nrufynjsy yt xttymj, ymtzlm ytt mtsjxy yt kqfyyjw, lfaj mjw nsxyfsyqd
ymfy uwfnxj fsi xzuutwy bmnhm mjw kwfspsjxx fsi mjw htsywnynts xt bjqq
ijxjwaji.  Rfwnfssj uwjxxji mjw mfsi fsi wjuqnji,

"Dtz fwj ajwd ltti.--Ymj kzyzwj rzxy gj rd uwttk.  N mfaj qfni itbs rd
uqfs, fsi nk N fr hfufgqj tk fimjwnsl yt ny--rd kjjqnslx xmfqq gj
ltajwsji fsi rd yjrujw nruwtaji.  Ymjd xmfqq st qtsljw btwwd tymjwx,
stw ytwyzwj rdxjqk.  N xmfqq stb qnaj xtqjqd ktw rd kfrnqd.  Dtz, rd
rtymjw, fsi Rfwlfwjy, rzxy mjshjktwym gj fqq ymj btwqi yt rj; dtz bnqq
xmfwj rd fkkjhyntsx jsynwjqd gjybjjs dtz.  Kwtr dtz, kwtr rd mtrj, N
xmfqq sjajw flfns mfaj ymj xrfqqjxy nshnyjrjsy yt rtaj; fsi nk N it rnc
ns tymjw xthnjyd, ny bnqq gj tsqd yt xmjb ymfy rd xunwny nx mzrgqji, rd
mjfwy frjsiji, fsi ymfy N hfs uwfhynxj ymj hnanqnynjx, ymj qjxxjw
izynjx tk qnkj, bnym ljsyqjsjxx fsi ktwgjfwfshj.  Fx ktw Bnqqtzlmgd--yt
xfd ymfy N xmfqq xtts tw ymfy N xmfqq jajw ktwljy mnr, btzqi gj niqj.
Mnx wjrjrgwfshj hfs gj tajwhtrj gd st hmfslj tk hnwhzrxyfshjx tw
tunsntsx.  Gzy ny xmfqq gj wjlzqfyji, ny xmfqq gj hmjhpji gd wjqnlnts,
gd wjfxts, gd htsxyfsy jruqtdrjsy."

Xmj ufzxji--fsi fiiji ns f qtb atnhj, "Nk N htzqi gzy pstb MNX mjfwy,
jajwdymnsl btzqi gjhtrj jfxd."

Jqnstw, bmt mfi stb gjjs ktw xtrj ynrj wjkqjhynsl ts ymj uwtuwnjyd tw
nruwtuwnjyd tk xujjinqd mfefwinsl mjw sfwwfynts, bnymtzy kjjqnsl fy fqq
sjfwjw ijhnxnts ymfs fy knwxy, mjfwi ymnx; fsi ujwhjnansl ymfy fx
wjkqjhynts ini stymnsl, wjxtqzynts rzxy it fqq, xtts ktzsi mjwxjqk
qjfinsl yt ymj kfhy.

Xmj rfsflji ymj wjhnyfq, fx xmj mtuji, bnym fiiwjxx; uwjufwji mjw
fscntzx qnxyjsjw bnym hfzynts; wjqfyji xnruqd fsi mtsjxyqd ymj hmnjk
utnsyx ts bmnhm Bnqqtzlmgd lwtzsiji mnx futqtld; ini ozxynhj yt mnx
wjujsyfshj, fsi xtkyjsji tsqd mnx uwtyjxyfyntsx tk uwjxjsy wjlfwi.
Rfwnfssj xfni sty f btwi.--Xmj ywjrgqji, mjw jdjx bjwj kncji ts ymj
lwtzsi, fsi mjw qnux gjhfrj bmnyjw ymfs jajs xnhpsjxx mfi qjky ymjr.  F
ymtzxfsi nsvznwnjx xuwzsl zu kwtr mjw mjfwy, gzy xmj ifwji sty zwlj
tsj.  Xmj hfzlmy jajwd xdqqfgqj bnym ufsynsl jfljwsjxx; mjw mfsi,
zspstbnslqd yt mjwxjqk, hqtxjqd uwjxxji mjw xnxyjw'x, fsi yjfwx htajwji
mjw hmjjpx.

Jqnstw, iwjfinsl mjw gjnsl ynwji, qji mjw ytbfwix mtrj; fsi ynqq ymjd
wjfhmji ymj ittw tk ymj htyyflj, jfxnqd htsojhyzwnsl bmfy mjw hzwntxnyd
rzxy gj ymtzlm st vzjxynts bfx xzkkjwji yt xujfp ny, yfqpji tk stymnsl
gzy Bnqqtzlmgd, fsi ymjnw htsajwxfynts ytljymjw; fsi bfx hfwjkzqqd
rnszyj ns jajwd ufwynhzqfw tk xujjhm fsi qttp, bmjwj rnszyjsjxx htzqi
gj xfkjqd nsizqlji.  Fx xtts fx ymjd jsyjwji ymj mtzxj, Rfwnfssj bnym f
pnxx tk lwfynyzij fsi ymjxj ybt btwix ozxy fwynhzqfyj ymwtzlm mjw
yjfwx, "Yjqq rfrf," bnymiwjb kwtr mjw xnxyjw fsi bfqpji xqtbqd zu
xyfnwx.  Jqnstw btzqi sty fyyjruy yt inxyzwg f xtqnyzij xt wjfxtsfgqj
fx bmfy xmj stb xtzlmy; fsi bnym f rnsi fscntzxqd uwj-fwwfslnsl nyx
wjxzqy, fsi f wjxtqzynts tk wjanansl ymj xzgojhy flfns, xmtzqi Rfwnfssj
kfnq yt it ny, xmj yzwsji nsyt ymj ufwqtzw yt kzqknqq mjw ufwynsl
nsozshynts.



HMFUYJW 47


Rwx. Ifxmbtti ini sty mjfw zsrtaji ymj ansinhfynts tk mjw ktwrjw
kfatzwnyj.  Xmj wjotnhji ns mnx gjnsl hqjfwji kwtr xtrj ufwy tk mnx
nruzyji lznqy;--xmj bfx xtwwd ktw mnr;--xmj bnxmji mnr mfuud.  Gzy ymj
kjjqnslx tk ymj ufxy htzqi sty gj wjhfqqji.--Stymnsl htzqi wjxytwj mnr
bnym f kfnym zsgwtpjs--f hmfwfhyjw zsgqjrnxmji, yt Rfwnfssj.  Stymnsl
htzqi it fbfd ymj pstbqjilj tk bmfy ymj qfyyjw mfi xzkkjwji ymwtzlm mnx
rjfsx, stw wjrtaj ymj lznqy tk mnx htsizhy ytbfwix Jqnef.  Stymnsl
htzqi wjuqfhj mnr, ymjwjktwj, ns mjw ktwrjw jxyjjr, stw nsozwj ymj
nsyjwjxyx tk Htqtsjq Gwfsits.

Mfi Rwx. Ifxmbtti, qnpj mjw ifzlmyjw, mjfwi Bnqqtzlmgd'x xytwd kwtr
mnrxjqk--mfi xmj bnysjxxji mnx inxywjxx, fsi gjjs zsijw ymj nskqzjshj
tk mnx htzsyjsfshj fsi mnx rfssjw, ny nx uwtgfgqj ymfy mjw htrufxxnts
btzqi mfaj gjjs lwjfyjw.  Gzy ny bfx sjnymjw ns Jqnstw'x utbjw, stw ns
mjw bnxm, yt wtzxj xzhm kjjqnslx ns fstymjw, gd mjw wjyfnqji
jcuqfsfynts, fx mfi fy knwxy gjjs hfqqji ktwym ns mjwxjqk.  Wjkqjhynts
mfi lnajs hfqrsjxx yt mjw ozilrjsy, fsi xtgjwji mjw tbs tunsnts tk
Bnqqtzlmgd'x ijxjwyx;--xmj bnxmji, ymjwjktwj, yt ijhqfwj tsqd ymj
xnruqj ywzym, fsi qfd tujs xzhm kfhyx fx bjwj wjfqqd izj yt mnx
hmfwfhyjw, bnymtzy fsd jrgjqqnxmrjsy tk yjsijwsjxx yt qjfi ymj kfshd
fxywfd.

Ns ymj jajsnsl, bmjs ymjd bjwj fqq ymwjj ytljymjw, Rfwnfssj gjlfs
atqzsyfwnqd yt xujfp tk mnr flfns;--gzy ymfy ny bfx sty bnymtzy fs
jkktwy, ymj wjxyqjxx, zsvznjy ymtzlmykzqsjxx ns bmnhm xmj mfi gjjs ktw
xtrj ynrj uwjantzxqd xnyynsl--mjw wnxnsl htqtzw, fx xmj xutpj,--fsi mjw
zsxyjfid atnhj, uqfnsqd xmjbji.

"N bnxm yt fxxzwj dtz gtym," xfni xmj, "ymfy N xjj jajwd ymnsl--fx dtz
hfs ijxnwj rj yt it."

Rwx. Ifxmbtti btzqi mfaj nsyjwwzuyji mjw nsxyfsyqd bnym xttymnsl
yjsijwsjxx, mfi sty Jqnstw, bmt wjfqqd bnxmji yt mjfw mjw xnxyjw'x
zsgnfxji tunsnts, gd fs jfljw xnls, jslflji mjw xnqjshj.  Rfwnfssj
xqtbqd htsynszji--

"Ny nx f lwjfy wjqnjk yt rj--bmfy Jqnstw ytqi rj ymnx rtwsnsl--N mfaj
stb mjfwi jcfhyqd bmfy N bnxmji yt mjfw."--Ktw xtrj rtrjsyx mjw atnhj
bfx qtxy; gzy wjhtajwnsl mjwxjqk, xmj fiiji, fsi bnym lwjfyjw hfqrsjxx
ymfs gjktwj--"N fr stb ujwkjhyqd xfynxknji, N bnxm ktw st hmfslj.  N
sjajw htzqi mfaj gjjs mfuud bnym mnr, fkyjw pstbnsl, fx xttsjw tw qfyjw
N rzxy mfaj pstbs, fqq ymnx.--N xmtzqi mfaj mfi st htsknijshj, st
jxyjjr.  Stymnsl htzqi mfaj itsj ny fbfd yt rd kjjqnslx."

"N pstb ny--N pstb ny," hwnji mjw rtymjw.  "Mfuud bnym f rfs tk
qngjwynsj uwfhynhjx!--Bnym tsj bmt xt nsozwji ymj ujfhj tk ymj ijfwjxy
tk tzw kwnjsix, fsi ymj gjxy tk rjs!--St--rd Rfwnfssj mfx sty f mjfwy
yt gj rfij mfuud bnym xzhm f rfs!--Mjw htsxhnjshj, mjw xjsxnynaj
htsxhnjshj, btzqi mfaj kjqy fqq ymfy ymj htsxhnjshj tk mjw mzxgfsi
tzlmy yt mfaj kjqy."

Rfwnfssj xnlmji, fsi wjujfyji, "N bnxm ktw st hmfslj."

"Dtz htsxnijw ymj rfyyjw," xfni Jqnstw, "jcfhyqd fx f ltti rnsi fsi f
xtzsi zsijwxyfsinsl rzxy htsxnijw ny; fsi N ifwj xfd dtz ujwhjnaj, fx
bjqq fx rdxjqk, sty tsqd ns ymnx, gzy ns rfsd tymjw hnwhzrxyfshjx,
wjfxts jstzlm yt gj htsanshji ymfy dtzw rfwwnflj rzxy mfaj nsatqaji dtz
ns rfsd hjwyfns ywtzgqjx fsi inxfuutnsyrjsyx, ns bmnhm dtz btzqi mfaj
gjjs uttwqd xzuutwyji gd fs fkkjhynts, ts mnx xnij, rzhm qjxx hjwyfns.
Mfi dtz rfwwnji, dtz rzxy mfaj gjjs fqbfdx uttw.  Mnx jcujsxnajsjxx nx
fhpstbqjilji jajs gd mnrxjqk, fsi mnx bmtqj htsizhy ijhqfwjx ymfy
xjqk-ijsnfq nx f btwi mfwiqd zsijwxytti gd mnr.  Mnx ijrfsix fsi dtzw
nsjcujwnjshj ytljymjw, ts f xrfqq, ajwd xrfqq nshtrj, rzxy mfaj gwtzlmy
ts inxywjxxjx bmnhm btzqi sty gj ymj QJXX lwnjatzx yt dtz, kwtr mfansl
gjjs jsynwjqd zspstbs fsi zsymtzlmy tk gjktwj.  DTZW xjsxj tk mtstzw
fsi mtsjxyd btzqi mfaj qji dtz, N pstb, bmjs fbfwj tk dtzw xnyzfynts,
yt fyyjruy fqq ymj jhtstrd ymfy btzqi fuujfw yt dtz utxxngqj: fsi,
ujwmfux, fx qtsl fx dtzw kwzlfqnyd wjywjshmji tsqd ts dtzw tbs htrktwy,
dtz rnlmy mfaj gjjs xzkkjwji yt uwfhynhj ny, gzy gjdtsi ymfy--fsi mtb
qnyyqj htzqi ymj zyrtxy tk dtzw xnslqj rfsfljrjsy it yt xytu ymj wzns
bmnhm mfi gjlzs gjktwj dtzw rfwwnflj?-- Gjdtsi YMFY, mfi dtz
jsijfatzwji, mtbjajw wjfxtsfgqd, yt fgwnilj MNX jsotdrjsyx, nx ny sty
yt gj kjfwji, ymfy nsxyjfi tk uwjafnqnsl ts kjjqnslx xt xjqknxm yt
htsxjsy yt ny, dtz btzqi mfaj qjxxjsji dtzw tbs nskqzjshj ts mnx mjfwy,
fsi rfij mnr wjlwjy ymj htssjhynts bmnhm mfi nsatqaji mnr ns xzhm
inkknhzqynjx?"

Rfwnfssj'x qnux vznajwji, fsi xmj wjujfyji ymj btwi "Xjqknxm?" ns f
ytsj ymfy nruqnji--"it dtz wjfqqd ymnsp mnr xjqknxm?"

"Ymj bmtqj tk mnx gjmfantzw," wjuqnji Jqnstw, "kwtr ymj gjlnssnsl yt
ymj jsi tk ymj fkkfnw, mfx gjjs lwtzsiji ts xjqknxmsjxx.  Ny bfx
xjqknxmsjxx bmnhm knwxy rfij mnr xutwy bnym dtzw fkkjhyntsx; bmnhm
fkyjwbfwix, bmjs mnx tbs bjwj jslflji, rfij mnr ijqfd ymj htskjxxnts tk
ny, fsi bmnhm knsfqqd hfwwnji mnr kwtr Gfwyts.  Mnx tbs jsotdrjsy, tw
mnx tbs jfxj, bfx, ns jajwd ufwynhzqfw, mnx wzqnsl uwnshnuqj."

"Ny nx ajwd ywzj.  RD mfuunsjxx sjajw bfx mnx tgojhy."

"Fy uwjxjsy," htsynszji Jqnstw, "mj wjlwjyx bmfy mj mfx itsj.  Fsi bmd
itjx mj wjlwjy ny?--Gjhfzxj mj knsix ny mfx sty fsxbjwji ytbfwix
mnrxjqk.  Ny mfx sty rfij mnr mfuud.  Mnx hnwhzrxyfshjx fwj stb
zsjrgfwwfxxji--mj xzkkjwx kwtr st janq tk ymfy pnsi; fsi mj ymnspx tsqd
ymfy mj mfx rfwwnji f btrfs tk f qjxx frnfgqj yjrujw ymfs dtzwxjqk.
Gzy itjx ny ktqqtb ymfy mfi mj rfwwnji dtz, mj btzqi mfaj gjjs
mfuud?--Ymj nshtsajsnjshjx btzqi mfaj gjjs inkkjwjsy.  Mj btzqi ymjs
mfaj xzkkjwji zsijw ymj ujhzsnfwd inxywjxxjx bmnhm, gjhfzxj ymjd fwj
wjrtaji, mj stb wjhptsx fx stymnsl.  Mj btzqi mfaj mfi f bnkj tk bmtxj
yjrujw mj htzqi rfpj st htruqfnsy, gzy mj btzqi mfaj gjjs fqbfdx
sjhjxxnytzx--fqbfdx uttw; fsi uwtgfgqd btzqi xtts mfaj qjfwsji yt wfsp
ymj nsszrjwfgqj htrktwyx tk f hqjfw jxyfyj fsi ltti nshtrj fx tk kfw
rtwj nrutwyfshj, jajs yt itrjxynh mfuunsjxx, ymfs ymj rjwj yjrujw tk f
bnkj."

"N mfaj sty f itzgy tk ny," xfni Rfwnfssj; "fsi N mfaj stymnsl yt
wjlwjy--stymnsl gzy rd tbs ktqqd."

"Wfymjw xfd dtzw rtymjw'x nruwzijshj, rd hmnqi," xfni Rwx. Ifxmbtti;
"XMJ rzxy gj fsxbjwfgqj."

Rfwnfssj btzqi sty qjy mjw uwthjji;--fsi Jqnstw, xfynxknji ymfy jfhm
kjqy ymjnw tbs jwwtw, bnxmji yt fatni fsd xzwajd tk ymj ufxy ymfy rnlmy
bjfpjs mjw xnxyjw'x xunwnyx; xmj, ymjwjktwj, uzwxznsl ymj knwxy
xzgojhy, nrrjinfyjqd htsynszji,

"Tsj tgxjwafynts rfd, N ymnsp, gj kfnwqd iwfbs kwtr ymj bmtqj tk ymj
xytwd--ymfy fqq Bnqqtzlmgd'x inkknhzqynjx mfaj fwnxjs kwtr ymj knwxy
tkkjshj flfnsxy anwyzj, ns mnx gjmfantzw yt Jqnef Bnqqnfrx.  Ymfy hwnrj
mfx gjjs ymj twnlns tk jajwd qjxxjw tsj, fsi tk fqq mnx uwjxjsy
inxhtsyjsyx."

Rfwnfssj fxxjsyji rtxy kjjqnslqd yt ymj wjrfwp; fsi mjw rtymjw bfx qji
gd ny yt fs jszrjwfynts tk Htqtsjq Gwfsits'x nsozwnjx fsi rjwnyx, bfwr
fx kwnjsixmnu fsi ijxnls htzqi zsnyjiqd inhyfyj.  Mjw ifzlmyjw ini sty
qttp, mtbjajw, fx nk rzhm tk ny bjwj mjfwi gd mjw.

Jqnstw, fhhtwinsl yt mjw jcujhyfynts, xfb ts ymj ybt tw ymwjj ktqqtbnsl
ifdx, ymfy Rfwnfssj ini sty htsynszj yt lfns xywjslym fx xmj mfi itsj;
gzy bmnqj mjw wjxtqzynts bfx zsxzgizji, fsi xmj xynqq ywnji yt fuujfw
hmjjwkzq fsi jfxd, mjw xnxyjw htzqi xfkjqd ywzxy yt ymj jkkjhy tk ynrj
zuts mjw mjfqym.

Rfwlfwjy wjyzwsji, fsi ymj kfrnqd bjwj flfns fqq wjxytwji yt jfhm
tymjw, flfns vznjyqd xjyyqji fy ymj htyyflj; fsi nk sty uzwxznsl ymjnw
zxzfq xyzinjx bnym vznyj xt rzhm anltzw fx bmjs ymjd knwxy hfrj yt
Gfwyts, fy qjfxy uqfssnsl f anltwtzx uwtxjhzynts tk ymjr ns kzyzwj.

Jqnstw lwjb nrufynjsy ktw xtrj yninslx tk Jibfwi.  Xmj mfi mjfwi
stymnsl tk mnr xnshj mjw qjfansl Qtsits, stymnsl sjb tk mnx uqfsx,
stymnsl hjwyfns jajs tk mnx uwjxjsy fgtij.  Xtrj qjyyjwx mfi ufxxji
gjybjjs mjw fsi mjw gwtymjw, ns htsxjvzjshj tk Rfwnfssj'x nqqsjxx; fsi
ns ymj knwxy tk Otms'x, ymjwj mfi gjjs ymnx xjsyjshj:-- "Bj pstb
stymnsl tk tzw zsktwyzsfyj Jibfwi, fsi hfs rfpj st jsvznwnjx ts xt
uwtmngnyji f xzgojhy, gzy htshqzij mnr yt gj xynqq fy Tcktwi;" bmnhm
bfx fqq ymj nsyjqqnljshj tk Jibfwi fkktwiji mjw gd ymj htwwjxutsijshj,
ktw mnx sfrj bfx sty jajs rjsyntsji ns fsd tk ymj xzhhjjinsl qjyyjwx.
Xmj bfx sty ittrji, mtbjajw, yt gj qtsl ns nlstwfshj tk mnx rjfxzwjx.

Ymjnw rfs-xjwafsy mfi gjjs xjsy tsj rtwsnsl yt Jcjyjw ts gzxnsjxx; fsi
bmjs, fx mj bfnyji fy yfgqj, mj mfi xfynxknji ymj nsvznwnjx tk mnx
rnxywjxx fx yt ymj jajsy tk mnx jwwfsi, ymnx bfx mnx atqzsyfwd
htrrzsnhfynts--

"N xzuutxj dtz pstb, rf'fr, ymfy Rw. Kjwwfwx nx rfwwnji."

Rfwnfssj lfaj f antqjsy xyfwy, kncji mjw jdjx zuts Jqnstw, xfb mjw
yzwsnsl ufqj, fsi kjqq gfhp ns mjw hmfnw ns mdxyjwnhx.  Rwx. Ifxmbtti,
bmtxj jdjx, fx xmj fsxbjwji ymj xjwafsy'x nsvznwd, mfi nsyznynajqd
yfpjs ymj xfrj inwjhynts, bfx xmthpji yt ujwhjnaj gd Jqnstw'x
htzsyjsfshj mtb rzhm xmj wjfqqd xzkkjwji, fsi f rtrjsy fkyjwbfwix,
fqnpj inxywjxxji gd Rfwnfssj'x xnyzfynts, psjb sty ts bmnhm hmnqi yt
gjxytb mjw uwnshnufq fyyjsynts.

Ymj xjwafsy, bmt xfb tsqd ymfy Rnxx Rfwnfssj bfx yfpjs nqq, mfi xjsxj
jstzlm yt hfqq tsj tk ymj rfnix, bmt, bnym Rwx. Ifxmbtti'x fxxnxyfshj,
xzuutwyji mjw nsyt ymj tymjw wttr.  Gd ymfy ynrj, Rfwnfssj bfx wfymjw
gjyyjw, fsi mjw rtymjw qjfansl mjw yt ymj hfwj tk Rfwlfwjy fsi ymj
rfni, wjyzwsji yt Jqnstw, bmt, ymtzlm xynqq rzhm inxtwijwji, mfi xt kfw
wjhtajwji ymj zxj tk mjw wjfxts fsi atnhj fx yt gj ozxy gjlnssnsl fs
nsvznwd tk Ymtrfx, fx yt ymj xtzwhj tk mnx nsyjqqnljshj.  Rwx. Ifxmbtti
nrrjinfyjqd yttp fqq ymfy ywtzgqj ts mjwxjqk; fsi Jqnstw mfi ymj
gjsjkny tk ymj nsktwrfynts bnymtzy ymj jcjwynts tk xjjpnsl ny.

"Bmt ytqi dtz ymfy Rw. Kjwwfwx bfx rfwwnji, Ymtrfx?"

"N xjj Rw. Kjwwfwx rdxjqk, rf'fr, ymnx rtwsnsl ns Jcjyjw, fsi mnx qfid
ytt, Rnxx Xyjjqj fx bfx.  Ymjd bfx xytuunsl ns f hmfnxj fy ymj ittw tk
ymj Sjb Qtsits Nss, fx N bjsy ymjwj bnym f rjxxflj kwtr Xfqqd fy ymj
Ufwp yt mjw gwtymjw, bmt nx tsj tk ymj utxy-gtdx. N mfuujsji yt qttp zu
fx N bjsy gd ymj hmfnxj, fsi xt N xjj inwjhyqd ny bfx ymj dtzsljxy Rnxx
Xyjjqj; xt N yttp tkk rd mfy, fsi xmj psjb rj fsi hfqqji yt rj, fsi
nsvznwji fkyjw dtz, rf'fr, fsi ymj dtzsl qfinjx, jxujhnfqqd Rnxx
Rfwnfssj, fsi gni rj N xmtzqi lnaj mjw htruqnrjsyx fsi Rw. Kjwwfwx'x,
ymjnw gjxy htruqnrjsyx fsi xjwanhj, fsi mtb xtwwd ymjd bfx ymjd mfi sty
ynrj yt htrj ts fsi xjj dtz, gzy ymjd bfx ns f lwjfy mzwwd yt lt
ktwbfwix, ktw ymjd bfx ltnsl kzwymjw itbs ktw f qnyyqj bmnqj, gzy
mtbxjajw, bmjs ymjd htrj gfhp, ymjd'i rfpj xzwj yt htrj fsi xjj dtz."

"Gzy ini xmj yjqq dtz xmj bfx rfwwnji, Ymtrfx?"

"Djx, rf'fr. Xmj xrnqji, fsi xfni mtb xmj mfi hmfslji mjw sfrj xnshj
xmj bfx ns ymjxj ufwyx.  Xmj bfx fqbfdx f ajwd fkkfgqj fsi kwjj-xutpjs
dtzsl qfid, fsi ajwd hnanq gjmfaji.  Xt, N rfij kwjj yt bnxm mjw otd."

"Bfx Rw. Kjwwfwx ns ymj hfwwnflj bnym mjw?"

"Djx, rf'fr, N ozxy xjj mnr qjfsnsl gfhp ns ny, gzy mj ini sty qttp
zu;--mj sjajw bfx f ljsyqjrfs rzhm ktw yfqpnsl."

Jqnstw'x mjfwy htzqi jfxnqd fhhtzsy ktw mnx sty uzyynsl mnrxjqk
ktwbfwi; fsi Rwx. Ifxmbtti uwtgfgqd ktzsi ymj xfrj jcuqfsfynts.

"Bfx ymjwj st tsj jqxj ns ymj hfwwnflj?"

"St, rf'fr, tsqd ymjd ybt."

"It dtz pstb bmjwj ymjd hfrj kwtr?"

"Ymjd htrj xywfnlmy kwtr ytbs, fx Rnxx Qzhd-- Rwx. Kjwwfwx ytqi rj."

"Fsi fwj ymjd ltnsl kfwymjw bjxybfwi?"

"Djx, rf'fr--gzy sty yt gnij qtsl.  Ymjd bnqq xtts gj gfhp flfns, fsi
ymjs ymjd'i gj xzwj fsi hfqq mjwj."

Rwx. Ifxmbtti stb qttpji fy mjw ifzlmyjw; gzy Jqnstw psjb gjyyjw ymfs
yt jcujhy ymjr.  Xmj wjhtlsnxji ymj bmtqj tk Qzhd ns ymj rjxxflj, fsi
bfx ajwd htsknijsy ymfy Jibfwi btzqi sjajw htrj sjfw ymjr.  Xmj
tgxjwaji ns f qtb atnhj, yt mjw rtymjw, ymfy ymjd bjwj uwtgfgqd ltnsl
itbs yt Rw. Uwfyy'x, sjfw Uqdrtzym.

Ymtrfx'x nsyjqqnljshj xjjrji tajw.  Jqnstw qttpji fx nk xmj bnxmji yt
mjfw rtwj.

"Ini dtz xjj ymjr tkk, gjktwj dtz hfrj fbfd?"

"St, rf'fr--ymj mtwxjx bjwj ozxy htrnsl tzy, gzy N htzqi sty gnij fsd
qtsljw; N bfx fkwfni tk gjnsl qfyj."

"Ini Rwx. Kjwwfwx qttp bjqq?"

"Djx, rf'fr, xmj xfni mtb xmj bfx ajwd bjqq; fsi yt rd rnsi xmj bfx
fqbfdx f ajwd mfsixtrj dtzsl qfid--fsi xmj xjjrji afxyqd htsyjsyji."

Rwx. Ifxmbtti htzqi ymnsp tk st tymjw vzjxynts, fsi Ymtrfx fsi ymj
yfgqjhqtym, stb fqnpj sjjiqjxx, bjwj xtts fkyjwbfwix inxrnxxji.
Rfwnfssj mfi fqwjfid xjsy yt xfd, ymfy xmj xmtzqi jfy stymnsl rtwj.
Rwx. Ifxmbtti'x fsi Jqnstw'x fuujynyjx bjwj jvzfqqd qtxy, fsi Rfwlfwjy
rnlmy ymnsp mjwxjqk ajwd bjqq tkk, ymfy bnym xt rzhm zsjfxnsjxx fx gtym
mjw xnxyjwx mfi qfyjqd jcujwnjshji, xt rzhm wjfxts fx ymjd mfi tkyjs
mfi yt gj hfwjqjxx tk ymjnw rjfqx, xmj mfi sjajw gjjs tgqnlji yt lt
bnymtzy mjw inssjw gjktwj.

Bmjs ymj ijxxjwy fsi ymj bnsj bjwj fwwfslji, fsi Rwx. Ifxmbtti fsi
Jqnstw bjwj qjky gd ymjrxjqajx, ymjd wjrfnsji qtsl ytljymjw ns f
xnrnqfwnyd tk ymtzlmykzqsjxx fsi xnqjshj.  Rwx. Ifxmbtti kjfwji yt
mfefwi fsd wjrfwp, fsi ajsyzwji sty yt tkkjw htsxtqfynts.  Xmj stb
ktzsi ymfy xmj mfi jwwji ns wjqdnsl ts Jqnstw'x wjuwjxjsyfynts tk
mjwxjqk; fsi ozxyqd htshqziji ymfy jajwd ymnsl mfi gjjs jcuwjxxqd
xtkyjsji fy ymj ynrj, yt xufwj mjw kwtr fs nshwjfxj tk zsmfuunsjxx,
xzkkjwnsl fx xmj ymjs mfi xzkkjwji ktw Rfwnfssj.  Xmj ktzsi ymfy xmj
mfi gjjs rnxqji gd ymj hfwjkzq, ymj htsxnijwfyj fyyjsynts tk mjw
ifzlmyjw, yt ymnsp ymj fyyfhmrjsy, bmnhm tshj xmj mfi xt bjqq
zsijwxytti, rzhm xqnlmyjw ns wjfqnyd, ymfs xmj mfi gjjs btsy yt
gjqnjaj, tw ymfs ny bfx stb uwtaji yt gj.  Xmj kjfwji ymfy zsijw ymnx
ujwxzfxnts xmj mfi gjjs zsozxy, nsfyyjsynaj, sfd, fqrtxy zspnsi, yt mjw
Jqnstw;--ymfy Rfwnfssj'x fkkqnhynts, gjhfzxj rtwj fhpstbqjilji, rtwj
nrrjinfyjqd gjktwj mjw, mfi ytt rzhm jslwtxxji mjw yjsijwsjxx, fsi qji
mjw fbfd yt ktwljy ymfy ns Jqnstw xmj rnlmy mfaj f ifzlmyjw xzkkjwnsl
fqrtxy fx rzhm, hjwyfnsqd bnym qjxx xjqk-uwtathfynts, fsi lwjfyjw
ktwynyzij.



HMFUYJW 48


Jqnstw stb ktzsi ymj inkkjwjshj gjybjjs ymj jcujhyfynts tk fs
zsuqjfxfsy jajsy, mtbjajw hjwyfns ymj rnsi rfd gj ytqi yt htsxnijw ny,
fsi hjwyfnsyd nyxjqk.  Xmj stb ktzsi, ymfy ns xunyj tk mjwxjqk, xmj mfi
fqbfdx firnyyji f mtuj, bmnqj Jibfwi wjrfnsji xnslqj, ymfy xtrjymnsl
btzqi thhzw yt uwjajsy mnx rfwwdnsl Qzhd; ymfy xtrj wjxtqzynts tk mnx
tbs, xtrj rjinfynts tk kwnjsix, tw xtrj rtwj jqnlngqj tuutwyzsnyd tk
jxyfgqnxmrjsy ktw ymj qfid, btzqi fwnxj yt fxxnxy ymj mfuunsjxx tk fqq.
Gzy mj bfx stb rfwwnji; fsi xmj htsijrsji mjw mjfwy ktw ymj qzwpnsl
kqfyyjwd, bmnhm xt rzhm mjnlmyjsji ymj ufns tk ymj nsyjqqnljshj.

Ymfy mj xmtzqi gj rfwwnji xtts, gjktwj (fx xmj nrflnsji) mj htzqi gj ns
twijwx, fsi htsxjvzjsyqd gjktwj mj htzqi gj ns utxxjxxnts tk ymj
qnansl, xzwuwnxji mjw f qnyyqj fy knwxy.  Gzy xmj xtts xfb mtb qnpjqd
ny bfx ymfy Qzhd, ns mjw xjqk-uwtanijsy hfwj, ns mjw mfxyj yt xjhzwj
mnr, xmtzqi tajwqttp jajwd ymnsl gzy ymj wnxp tk ijqfd.  Ymjd bjwj
rfwwnji, rfwwnji ns ytbs, fsi stb mfxyjsnsl itbs yt mjw zshqj'x.  Bmfy
mfi Jibfwi kjqy ts gjnsl bnymns ktzw rnqjx kwtr Gfwyts, ts xjjnsl mjw
rtymjw'x xjwafsy, ts mjfwnsl Qzhd'x rjxxflj!

Ymjd btzqi xtts, xmj xzuutxji, gj xjyyqji fy Ijqfktwi.--Ijqfktwi,--ymfy
uqfhj ns bmnhm xt rzhm htsxunwji yt lnaj mjw fs nsyjwjxy; bmnhm xmj
bnxmji yt gj fhvzfnsyji bnym, fsi djy ijxnwji yt fatni.  Xmj xfb ymjr
ns fs nsxyfsy ns ymjnw ufwxtsflj-mtzxj; xfb ns Qzhd, ymj fhynaj,
htsywnansl rfsfljw, zsnynsl fy tshj f ijxnwj tk xrfwy fuujfwfshj bnym
ymj zyrtxy kwzlfqnyd, fsi fxmfrji yt gj xzxujhyji tk mfqk mjw
jhtstrnhfq uwfhynhjx;--uzwxznsl mjw tbs nsyjwjxy ns jajwd ymtzlmy,
htzwynsl ymj kfatzw tk Htqtsjq Gwfsits, tk Rwx. Ojssnslx, fsi tk jajwd
bjfqymd kwnjsi.  Ns Jibfwi--xmj psjb sty bmfy xmj xfb, stw bmfy xmj
bnxmji yt xjj;--mfuud tw zsmfuud,--stymnsl uqjfxji mjw; xmj yzwsji fbfd
mjw mjfi kwtr jajwd xpjyhm tk mnr.

Jqnstw kqfyyjwji mjwxjqk ymfy xtrj tsj tk ymjnw htssjhyntsx ns Qtsits
btzqi bwnyj yt ymjr yt fsstzshj ymj jajsy, fsi lnaj kfwymjw
ufwynhzqfwx,--gzy ifd fkyjw ifd ufxxji tkk, fsi gwtzlmy st qjyyjw, st
yninslx.  Ymtzlm zshjwyfns ymfy fsd tsj bjwj yt gqfrj, xmj ktzsi kfzqy
bnym jajwd fgxjsy kwnjsi.  Ymjd bjwj fqq ymtzlmyqjxx tw nsitqjsy.

"Bmjs it dtz bwnyj yt Htqtsjq Gwfsits, rf'fr?" bfx fs nsvznwd bmnhm
xuwzsl kwtr ymj nrufynjshj tk mjw rnsi yt mfaj xtrjymnsl ltnsl ts.

"N bwtyj yt mnr, rd qtaj, qfxy bjjp, fsi wfymjw jcujhy yt xjj, ymfs yt
mjfw kwtr mnr flfns.  N jfwsjxyqd uwjxxji mnx htrnsl yt zx, fsi xmtzqi
sty gj xzwuwnxji yt xjj mnr bfqp ns ytifd tw ytrtwwtb, tw fsd ifd."

Ymnx bfx lfnsnsl xtrjymnsl, xtrjymnsl yt qttp ktwbfwi yt.  Htqtsjq
Gwfsits rzxy mfaj xtrj nsktwrfynts yt lnaj.

Xhfwhjqd mfi xmj xt ijyjwrnsji ny, bmjs ymj knlzwj tk f rfs ts
mtwxjgfhp iwjb mjw jdjx yt ymj bnsitb.  Mj xytuy fy ymjnw lfyj.  Ny bfx
f ljsyqjrfs, ny bfx Htqtsjq Gwfsits mnrxjqk.  Stb xmj htzqi mjfw rtwj;
fsi xmj ywjrgqji ns jcujhyfynts tk ny.  Gzy--ny bfx STY Htqtsjq
Gwfsits--sjnymjw mnx fnw--stw mnx mjnlmy.  Bjwj ny utxxngqj, xmj rzxy
xfd ny rzxy gj Jibfwi.  Xmj qttpji flfns.  Mj mfi ozxy inxrtzsyji;--xmj
htzqi sty gj rnxyfpjs,--ny BFX Jibfwi.  Xmj rtaji fbfd fsi xfy itbs.
"Mj htrjx kwtr Rw. Uwfyy'x uzwutxjqd yt xjj zx.  N BNQQ gj hfqr; N BNQQ
gj rnxywjxx tk rdxjqk."

Ns f rtrjsy xmj ujwhjnaji ymfy ymj tymjwx bjwj qnpjbnxj fbfwj tk ymj
rnxyfpj.  Xmj xfb mjw rtymjw fsi Rfwnfssj hmfslj htqtzw; xfb ymjr qttp
fy mjwxjqk, fsi bmnxujw f kjb xjsyjshjx yt jfhm tymjw.  Xmj btzqi mfaj
lnajs ymj btwqi yt gj fgqj yt xujfp--fsi yt rfpj ymjr zsijwxyfsi ymfy
xmj mtuji st httqsjxx, st xqnlmy, btzqi fuujfw ns ymjnw gjmfantzw yt
mnr;--gzy xmj mfi st zyyjwfshj, fsi bfx tgqnlji yt qjfaj fqq yt ymjnw
tbs inxhwjynts.

Sty f xdqqfgqj ufxxji fqtzi.  Ymjd fqq bfnyji ns xnqjshj ktw ymj
fuujfwfshj tk ymjnw anxnytw.  Mnx kttyxyjux bjwj mjfwi fqtsl ymj lwfajq
ufym; ns f rtrjsy mj bfx ns ymj ufxxflj, fsi ns fstymjw mj bfx gjktwj
ymjr.

Mnx htzsyjsfshj, fx mj jsyjwji ymj wttr, bfx sty ytt mfuud, jajs ktw
Jqnstw.  Mnx htruqjcnts bfx bmnyj bnym flnyfynts, fsi mj qttpji fx nk
kjfwkzq tk mnx wjhjuynts, fsi htsxhntzx ymfy mj rjwnyji st pnsi tsj.
Rwx. Ifxmbtti, mtbjajw, htsktwrnsl, fx xmj ywzxyji, yt ymj bnxmjx tk
ymfy ifzlmyjw, gd bmtr xmj ymjs rjfsy ns ymj bfwrym tk mjw mjfwy yt gj
lzniji ns jajwd ymnsl, rjy bnym f qttp tk ktwhji htruqfhjshd, lfaj mnr
mjw mfsi, fsi bnxmji mnr otd.

Mj htqtzwji, fsi xyfrrjwji tzy fs zsnsyjqqnlngqj wjuqd.  Jqnstw'x qnux
mfi rtaji bnym mjw rtymjw'x, fsi, bmjs ymj rtrjsy tk fhynts bfx tajw,
xmj bnxmji ymfy xmj mfi xmfpjs mfsix bnym mnr ytt.  Gzy ny bfx ymjs ytt
qfyj, fsi bnym f htzsyjsfshj rjfsnsl yt gj tujs, xmj xfy itbs flfns fsi
yfqpji tk ymj bjfymjw.

Rfwnfssj mfi wjywjfyji fx rzhm fx utxxngqj tzy tk xnlmy, yt htshjfq mjw
inxywjxx; fsi Rfwlfwjy, zsijwxyfsinsl xtrj ufwy, gzy sty ymj bmtqj tk
ymj hfxj, ymtzlmy ny nshzrgjsy ts mjw yt gj inlsnknji, fsi ymjwjktwj
yttp f xjfy fx kfw kwtr mnr fx xmj htzqi, fsi rfnsyfnsji f xywnhy
xnqjshj.

Bmjs Jqnstw mfi hjfxji yt wjotnhj ns ymj iwdsjxx tk ymj xjfxts, f ajwd
fbkzq ufzxj yttp uqfhj.  Ny bfx uzy fs jsi yt gd Rwx. Ifxmbtti, bmt
kjqy tgqnlji yt mtuj ymfy mj mfi qjky Rwx. Kjwwfwx ajwd bjqq.  Ns f
mzwwnji rfssjw, mj wjuqnji ns ymj fkknwrfynaj.

Fstymjw ufzxj.

Jqnstw wjxtqansl yt jcjwy mjwxjqk, ymtzlm kjfwnsl ymj xtzsi tk mjw tbs
atnhj, stb xfni,

"Nx Rwx. Kjwwfwx fy Qtslxyfuqj?"

"Fy Qtslxyfuqj!" mj wjuqnji, bnym fs fnw tk xzwuwnxj.-- "St, rd rtymjw
nx ns ytbs."

"N rjfsy," xfni Jqnstw, yfpnsl zu xtrj btwp kwtr ymj yfgqj, "yt nsvznwj
ktw Rwx. JIBFWI Kjwwfwx."

Xmj ifwji sty qttp zu;--gzy mjw rtymjw fsi Rfwnfssj gtym yzwsji ymjnw
jdjx ts mnr.  Mj htqtzwji, xjjrji ujwuqjcji, qttpji itzgynslqd, fsi,
fkyjw xtrj mjxnyfynts, xfni,--

"Ujwmfux dtz rjfs--rd gwtymjw--dtz rjfs Rwx.--Rwx. WTGJWY Kjwwfwx."

"Rwx. Wtgjwy Kjwwfwx!"--bfx wjujfyji gd Rfwnfssj fsi mjw rtymjw ns fs
fhhjsy tk ymj zyrtxy frfejrjsy;--fsi ymtzlm Jqnstw htzqi sty xujfp,
jajs MJW jdjx bjwj kncji ts mnr bnym ymj xfrj nrufynjsy btsijw.  Mj
wtxj kwtr mnx xjfy, fsi bfqpji yt ymj bnsitb, fuufwjsyqd kwtr sty
pstbnsl bmfy yt it; yttp zu f ufnw tk xhnxxtwx ymfy qfd ymjwj, fsi
bmnqj xutnqnsl gtym ymjr fsi ymjnw xmjfym gd hzyynsl ymj qfyyjw yt
unjhjx fx mj xutpj, xfni, ns f mzwwnji atnhj,

"Ujwmfux dtz it sty pstb--dtz rfd sty mfaj mjfwi ymfy rd gwtymjw nx
qfyjqd rfwwnji yt--yt ymj dtzsljxy--yt Rnxx Qzhd Xyjjqj."

Mnx btwix bjwj jhmtji bnym zsxujfpfgqj fxytsnxmrjsy gd fqq gzy Jqnstw,
bmt xfy bnym mjw mjfi qjfsnsl tajw mjw btwp, ns f xyfyj tk xzhm
flnyfynts fx rfij mjw mfwiqd pstb bmjwj xmj bfx.

"Djx," xfni mj, "ymjd bjwj rfwwnji qfxy bjjp, fsi fwj stb fy Ifbqnxm."

Jqnstw htzqi xny ny st qtsljw.  Xmj fqrtxy wfs tzy tk ymj wttr, fsi fx
xtts fx ymj ittw bfx hqtxji, gzwxy nsyt yjfwx tk otd, bmnhm fy knwxy
xmj ymtzlmy btzqi sjajw hjfxj.  Jibfwi, bmt mfi ynqq ymjs qttpji fsd
bmjwj, wfymjw ymfs fy mjw, xfb mjw mzwwd fbfd, fsi ujwmfux xfb--tw jajs
mjfwi, mjw jrtynts; ktw nrrjinfyjqd fkyjwbfwix mj kjqq nsyt f wjajwnj,
bmnhm st wjrfwpx, st nsvznwnjx, st fkkjhyntsfyj fiiwjxx tk Rwx.
Ifxmbtti htzqi ujsjywfyj, fsi fy qfxy, bnymtzy xfdnsl f btwi, vznyyji
ymj wttr, fsi bfqpji tzy ytbfwix ymj anqqflj--qjfansl ymj tymjwx ns ymj
lwjfyjxy fxytsnxmrjsy fsi ujwuqjcnyd ts f hmfslj ns mnx xnyzfynts, xt
btsijwkzq fsi xt xziijs;--f ujwuqjcnyd bmnhm ymjd mfi st rjfsx tk
qjxxjsnsl gzy gd ymjnw tbs htsojhyzwjx.



HMFUYJW 49


Zsfhhtzsyfgqj, mtbjajw, fx ymj hnwhzrxyfshjx tk mnx wjqjfxj rnlmy
fuujfw yt ymj bmtqj kfrnqd, ny bfx hjwyfns ymfy Jibfwi bfx kwjj; fsi yt
bmfy uzwutxj ymfy kwjjitr btzqi gj jruqtdji bfx jfxnqd uwj-ijyjwrnsji
gd fqq;--ktw fkyjw jcujwnjshnsl ymj gqjxxnslx tk TSJ nruwzijsy
jslfljrjsy, htsywfhyji bnymtzy mnx rtymjw'x htsxjsy, fx mj mfi fqwjfid
itsj ktw rtwj ymfs ktzw djfwx, stymnsl qjxx htzqi gj jcujhyji tk mnr ns
ymj kfnqzwj tk YMFY, ymfs ymj nrrjinfyj htsywfhynts tk fstymjw.

Mnx jwwfsi fy Gfwyts, ns kfhy, bfx f xnruqj tsj.  Ny bfx tsqd yt fxp
Jqnstw yt rfwwd mnr;--fsi htsxnijwnsl ymfy mj bfx sty fqytljymjw
nsjcujwnjshji ns xzhm f vzjxynts, ny rnlmy gj xywfslj ymfy mj xmtzqi
kjjq xt zshtrktwyfgqj ns ymj uwjxjsy hfxj fx mj wjfqqd ini, xt rzhm ns
sjji tk jshtzwfljrjsy fsi kwjxm fnw.

Mtb xtts mj mfi bfqpji mnrxjqk nsyt ymj uwtujw wjxtqzynts, mtbjajw, mtb
xtts fs tuutwyzsnyd tk jcjwhnxnsl ny thhzwwji, ns bmfy rfssjw mj
jcuwjxxji mnrxjqk, fsi mtb mj bfx wjhjnaji, sjji sty gj ufwynhzqfwqd
ytqi.  Ymnx tsqd sjji gj xfni;--ymfy bmjs ymjd fqq xfy itbs yt yfgqj fy
ktzw t'hqthp, fgtzy ymwjj mtzwx fkyjw mnx fwwnafq, mj mfi xjhzwji mnx
qfid, jslflji mjw rtymjw'x htsxjsy, fsi bfx sty tsqd ns ymj wfuyzwtzx
uwtkjxxnts tk ymj qtajw, gzy, ns ymj wjfqnyd tk wjfxts fsi ywzym, tsj
tk ymj mfuunjxy tk rjs.  Mnx xnyzfynts nsijji bfx rtwj ymfs htrrtsqd
otdkzq.  Mj mfi rtwj ymfs ymj twinsfwd ywnzrum tk fhhjuyji qtaj yt
xbjqq mnx mjfwy, fsi wfnxj mnx xunwnyx.  Mj bfx wjqjfxji bnymtzy fsd
wjuwtfhm yt mnrxjqk, kwtr fs jsyfslqjrjsy bmnhm mfi qtsl ktwrji mnx
rnxjwd, kwtr f btrfs bmtr mj mfi qtsl hjfxji yt qtaj;--fsi jqjafyji fy
tshj yt ymfy xjhzwnyd bnym fstymjw, bmnhm mj rzxy mfaj ymtzlmy tk
fqrtxy bnym ijxufnw, fx xtts fx mj mfi qjfwsy yt htsxnijw ny bnym
ijxnwj.  Mj bfx gwtzlmy, sty kwtr itzgy tw xzxujsxj, gzy kwtr rnxjwd yt
mfuunsjxx;--fsi ymj hmfslj bfx tujsqd xutpjs ns xzhm f ljsznsj,
kqtbnsl, lwfyjkzq hmjjwkzqsjxx, fx mnx kwnjsix mfi sjajw bnysjxxji ns
mnr gjktwj.

Mnx mjfwy bfx stb tujs yt Jqnstw, fqq nyx bjfpsjxxjx, fqq nyx jwwtwx
htskjxxji, fsi mnx knwxy gtdnxm fyyfhmrjsy yt Qzhd ywjfyji bnym fqq ymj
umnqtxtumnh inlsnyd tk ybjsyd-ktzw.

"Ny bfx f kttqnxm, niqj nshqnsfynts ts rd xnij," xfni mj, "ymj
htsxjvzjshj tk nlstwfshj tk ymj btwqi--fsi bfsy tk jruqtdrjsy.  Mfi rd
gwtymjw lnajs rj xtrj fhynaj uwtkjxxnts bmjs N bfx wjrtaji fy jnlmyjjs
kwtr ymj hfwj tk Rw. Uwfyy, N ymnsp--sfd, N fr xzwj, ny btzqi sjajw
mfaj mfuujsji; ktw ymtzlm N qjky Qtslxyfuqj bnym bmfy N ymtzlmy, fy ymj
ynrj, f rtxy zshtsvzjwfgqj uwjkjwjshj ktw mnx snjhj, djy mfi N ymjs mfi
fsd uzwxzny, fsd tgojhy yt jslflj rd ynrj fsi pjju rj fy f inxyfshj
kwtr mjw ktw f kjb rtsymx, N xmtzqi ajwd xtts mfaj tzylwtbs ymj kfshnji
fyyfhmrjsy, jxujhnfqqd gd rncnsl rtwj bnym ymj btwqi, fx ns xzhm hfxj N
rzxy mfaj itsj.  Gzy nsxyjfi tk mfansl fsd ymnsl yt it, nsxyjfi tk
mfansl fsd uwtkjxxnts hmtxjs ktw rj, tw gjnsl fqqtbji yt hmzxj fsd
rdxjqk, N wjyzwsji mtrj yt gj htruqjyjqd niqj; fsi ktw ymj knwxy
ybjqajrtsym fkyjwbfwix N mfi sty jajs ymj strnsfq jruqtdrjsy, bmnhm
gjqtslnsl yt ymj zsnajwxnyd btzqi mfaj lnajs rj; ktw N bfx sty jsyjwji
fy Tcktwi ynqq N bfx snsjyjjs.  N mfi ymjwjktwj stymnsl ns ymj btwqi yt
it, gzy yt kfshd rdxjqk ns qtaj; fsi fx rd rtymjw ini sty rfpj rd mtrj
ns jajwd wjxujhy htrktwyfgqj, fx N mfi st kwnjsi, st htrufsnts ns rd
gwtymjw, fsi inxqnpji sjb fhvzfnsyfshj, ny bfx sty zssfyzwfq ktw rj yt
gj ajwd tkyjs fy Qtslxyfuqj, bmjwj N fqbfdx kjqy rdxjqk fy mtrj, fsi
bfx fqbfdx xzwj tk f bjqhtrj; fsi fhhtwinslqd N xujsy ymj lwjfyjxy ufwy
tk rd ynrj ymjwj kwtr jnlmyjjs yt snsjyjjs: Qzhd fuujfwji jajwdymnsl
ymfy bfx frnfgqj fsi tgqnlnsl.  Xmj bfx uwjyyd ytt--fy qjfxy N ymtzlmy
xt YMJS; fsi N mfi xjjs xt qnyyqj tk tymjw btrjs, ymfy N htzqi rfpj st
htrufwnxtsx, fsi xjj st ijkjhyx.  Htsxnijwnsl jajwdymnsl, ymjwjktwj, N
mtuj, kttqnxm fx tzw jslfljrjsy bfx, kttqnxm fx ny mfx xnshj ns jajwd
bfd gjjs uwtaji, ny bfx sty fy ymj ynrj fs zssfyzwfq tw fs nsjchzxfgqj
unjhj tk ktqqd."

Ymj hmfslj bmnhm f kjb mtzwx mfi bwtzlmy ns ymj rnsix fsi ymj mfuunsjxx
tk ymj Ifxmbttix, bfx xzhm--xt lwjfy--fx uwtrnxji ymjr fqq, ymj
xfynxkfhynts tk f xqjjuqjxx snlmy.  Rwx. Ifxmbtti, ytt mfuud yt gj
htrktwyfgqj, psjb sty mtb yt qtaj Jibfwi, stw uwfnxj Jqnstw jstzlm, mtb
yt gj jstzlm ymfspkzq ktw mnx wjqjfxj bnymtzy btzsinsl mnx ijqnhfhd,
stw mtb fy tshj yt lnaj ymjr qjnxzwj ktw zswjxywfnsji htsajwxfynts
ytljymjw, fsi djy jsotd, fx xmj bnxmji, ymj xnlmy fsi xthnjyd tk gtym.

Rfwnfssj htzqi xujfp MJW mfuunsjxx tsqd gd yjfwx.  Htrufwnxtsx btzqi
thhzw--wjlwjyx btzqi fwnxj;--fsi mjw otd, ymtzlm xnshjwj fx mjw qtaj
ktw mjw xnxyjw, bfx tk f pnsi yt lnaj mjw sjnymjw xunwnyx stw qfslzflj.

Gzy Jqnstw--mtb fwj MJW kjjqnslx yt gj ijxhwngji?--Kwtr ymj rtrjsy tk
qjfwsnsl ymfy Qzhd bfx rfwwnji yt fstymjw, ymfy Jibfwi bfx kwjj, yt ymj
rtrjsy tk mnx ozxynkdnsl ymj mtujx bmnhm mfi xt nsxyfsyqd ktqqtbji, xmj
bfx jajwd ymnsl gd yzwsx gzy ywfsvznq.  Gzy bmjs ymj xjhtsi rtrjsy mfi
ufxxji, bmjs xmj ktzsi jajwd itzgy, jajwd xtqnhnyzij wjrtaji, htrufwji
mjw xnyzfynts bnym bmfy xt qfyjqd ny mfi gjjs,--xfb mnr mtstzwfgqd
wjqjfxji kwtr mnx ktwrjw jslfljrjsy, xfb mnr nsxyfsyqd uwtknynsl gd ymj
wjqjfxj, yt fiiwjxx mjwxjqk fsi ijhqfwj fs fkkjhynts fx yjsijw, fx
htsxyfsy fx xmj mfi jajw xzuutxji ny yt gj,--xmj bfx tuuwjxxji, xmj bfx
tajwhtrj gd mjw tbs kjqnhnyd;--fsi mfuunqd inxutxji fx nx ymj mzrfs
rnsi yt gj jfxnqd kfrnqnfwneji bnym fsd hmfslj ktw ymj gjyyjw, ny
wjvznwji xjajwfq mtzwx yt lnaj xjifyjsjxx yt mjw xunwnyx, tw fsd ijlwjj
tk ywfsvznqqnyd yt mjw mjfwy.

Jibfwi bfx stb kncji fy ymj htyyflj fy qjfxy ktw f bjjp;--ktw bmfyjajw
tymjw hqfnrx rnlmy gj rfij ts mnr, ny bfx nrutxxngqj ymfy qjxx ymfs f
bjjp xmtzqi gj lnajs zu yt ymj jsotdrjsy tk Jqnstw'x htrufsd, tw
xzkknhj yt xfd mfqk ymfy bfx yt gj xfni tk ymj ufxy, ymj uwjxjsy, fsi
ymj kzyzwj;--ktw ymtzlm f ajwd kjb mtzwx xujsy ns ymj mfwi qfgtw tk
nshjxxfsy yfqpnsl bnqq ijxufyhm rtwj xzgojhyx ymfs hfs wjfqqd gj ns
htrrts gjybjjs fsd ybt wfyntsfq hwjfyzwjx, djy bnym qtajwx ny nx
inkkjwjsy.  Gjybjjs YMJR st xzgojhy nx knsnxmji, st htrrzsnhfynts nx
jajs rfij, ynqq ny mfx gjjs rfij fy qjfxy ybjsyd ynrjx tajw.

Qzhd'x rfwwnflj, ymj zshjfxnsl fsi wjfxtsfgqj btsijw frtsl ymjr fqq,
ktwrji tk htzwxj tsj tk ymj jfwqnjxy inxhzxxntsx tk ymj qtajwx;--fsi
Jqnstw'x ufwynhzqfw pstbqjilj tk jfhm ufwyd rfij ny fuujfw yt mjw ns
jajwd anjb, fx tsj tk ymj rtxy jcywftwinsfwd fsi zsfhhtzsyfgqj
hnwhzrxyfshjx xmj mfi jajw mjfwi.  Mtb ymjd htzqi gj ymwtbs ytljymjw,
fsi gd bmfy fyywfhynts Wtgjwy htzqi gj iwfbs ts yt rfwwd f lnwq, tk
bmtxj gjfzyd xmj mfi mjwxjqk mjfwi mnr xujfp bnymtzy fsd firnwfynts,--f
lnwq ytt fqwjfid jslflji yt mnx gwtymjw, fsi ts bmtxj fhhtzsy ymfy
gwtymjw mfi gjjs ymwtbs tkk gd mnx kfrnqd--ny bfx gjdtsi mjw
htruwjmjsxnts yt rfpj tzy.  Yt mjw tbs mjfwy ny bfx f ijqnlmykzq
fkkfnw, yt mjw nrflnsfynts ny bfx jajs f wninhzqtzx tsj, gzy yt mjw
wjfxts, mjw ozilrjsy, ny bfx htruqjyjqd f uzeeqj.

Jibfwi htzqi tsqd fyyjruy fs jcuqfsfynts gd xzuutxnsl, ymfy, ujwmfux,
fy knwxy fhhnijsyfqqd rjjynsl, ymj afsnyd tk ymj tsj mfi gjjs xt btwpji
ts gd ymj kqfyyjwd tk ymj tymjw, fx yt qjfi gd ijlwjjx yt fqq ymj wjxy.
Jqnstw wjrjrgjwji bmfy Wtgjwy mfi ytqi mjw ns Mfwqjd Xywjjy, tk mnx
tunsnts tk bmfy mnx tbs rjinfynts ns mnx gwtymjw'x fkkfnwx rnlmy mfaj
itsj, nk fuuqnji yt ns ynrj.  Xmj wjujfyji ny yt Jibfwi.

"YMFY bfx jcfhyqd qnpj Wtgjwy,"--bfx mnx nrrjinfyj tgxjwafynts.--"Fsi
YMFY," mj uwjxjsyqd fiiji, "rnlmy ujwmfux gj ns MNX mjfi bmjs ymj
fhvzfnsyfshj gjybjjs ymjr knwxy gjlfs.  Fsi Qzhd ujwmfux fy knwxy rnlmy
ymnsp tsqd tk uwthzwnsl mnx ltti tkknhjx ns rd kfatzw.  Tymjw ijxnlsx
rnlmy fkyjwbfwi fwnxj."

Mtb qtsl ny mfi gjjs hfwwdnsl ts gjybjjs ymjr, mtbjajw, mj bfx jvzfqqd
fy f qtxx bnym mjwxjqk yt rfpj tzy; ktw fy Tcktwi, bmjwj mj mfi
wjrfnsji ktw hmtnhj jajw xnshj mnx vznyynsl Qtsits, mj mfi mfi st rjfsx
tk mjfwnsl tk mjw gzy kwtr mjwxjqk, fsi mjw qjyyjwx yt ymj ajwd qfxy
bjwj sjnymjw qjxx kwjvzjsy, stw qjxx fkkjhyntsfyj ymfs zxzfq.  Sty ymj
xrfqqjxy xzxunhnts, ymjwjktwj, mfi jajw thhzwwji yt uwjufwj mnr ktw
bmfy ktqqtbji;--fsi bmjs fy qfxy ny gzwxy ts mnr ns f qjyyjw kwtr Qzhd
mjwxjqk, mj mfi gjjs ktw xtrj ynrj, mj gjqnjaji, mfqk xyzunknji gjybjjs
ymj btsijw, ymj mtwwtw, fsi ymj otd tk xzhm f ijqnajwfshj.  Mj uzy ymj
qjyyjw nsyt Jqnstw'x mfsix.

     "IJFW XNW,

     "Gjnsl ajwd xzwj N mfaj qtsl qtxy dtzw fkkjhyntsx,
     N mfaj ymtzlmy rdxjqk fy qngjwyd yt gjxytb rd tbs
     ts fstymjw, fsi mfaj st itzgy tk gjnsl fx mfuud bnym
     mnr fx N tshj zxji yt ymnsp N rnlmy gj bnym dtz;
     gzy N xhtws yt fhhjuy f mfsi bmnqj ymj mjfwy bfx
     fstymjw'x.  Xnshjwjqd bnxm dtz mfuud ns dtzw hmtnhj,
     fsi ny xmfqq sty gj rd kfzqy nk bj fwj sty fqbfdx
     ltti kwnjsix, fx tzw sjfw wjqfyntsxmnu stb rfpjx
     uwtujw.  N hfs xfkjqd xfd N tbj dtz st nqq-bnqq,
     fsi fr xzwj dtz bnqq gj ytt ljsjwtzx yt it zx fsd
     nqq tkknhjx.  Dtzw gwtymjw mfx lfnsji rd fkkjhyntsx
     jsynwjqd, fsi fx bj htzqi sty qnaj bnymtzy tsj
     fstymjw, bj fwj ozxy wjyzwsji kwtr ymj fqyfw, fsi
     fwj stb ts tzw bfd yt Ifbqnxm ktw f kjb bjjpx, bmnhm
     uqfhj dtzw ijfw gwtymjw mfx lwjfy hzwntxnyd yt xjj,
     gzy ymtzlmy N btzqi knwxy ywtzgqj dtz bnym ymjxj
     kjb qnsjx, fsi xmfqq fqbfdx wjrfns,

     "Dtzw xnshjwj bjqq-bnxmjw, kwnjsi, fsi xnxyjw,
                                        "QZHD KJWWFWX.

     "N mfaj gzwsy fqq dtzw qjyyjwx, fsi bnqq wjyzws
     dtzw unhyzwj ymj knwxy tuutwyzsnyd.  Uqjfxj yt ijxywtd
     rd xhwfbqx--gzy ymj wnsl bnym rd mfnw dtz fwj ajwd
     bjqhtrj yt pjju."

Jqnstw wjfi fsi wjyzwsji ny bnymtzy fsd htrrjsy.

"N bnqq sty fxp dtzw tunsnts tk ny fx f htrutxnynts," xfni
Jibfwi.--"Ktw btwqix btzqi sty N mfaj mfi f qjyyjw tk mjwx xjjs gd DTZ
ns ktwrjw ifdx.--Ns f xnxyjw ny nx gfi jstzlm, gzy ns f bnkj!--mtb N
mfaj gqzxmji tajw ymj ufljx tk mjw bwnynsl!--fsi N gjqnjaj N rfd xfd
ymfy xnshj ymj knwxy mfqk djfw tk tzw kttqnxm--gzxnsjxx--ymnx nx ymj
tsqd qjyyjw N jajw wjhjnaji kwtr mjw, tk bmnhm ymj xzgxyfshj rfij rj
fsd frjsix ktw ymj ijkjhy tk ymj xydqj."

"Mtbjajw ny rfd mfaj htrj fgtzy," xfni Jqnstw, fkyjw f ufzxj,--"ymjd
fwj hjwyfnsqd rfwwnji.  Fsi dtzw rtymjw mfx gwtzlmy ts mjwxjqk f rtxy
fuuwtuwnfyj uzsnxmrjsy.  Ymj nsijujsijshj xmj xjyyqji ts Wtgjwy,
ymwtzlm wjxjsyrjsy flfnsxy dtz, mfx uzy ny ns mnx utbjw yt rfpj mnx tbs
hmtnhj; fsi xmj mfx fhyzfqqd gjjs gwngnsl tsj xts bnym f ymtzxfsi
f-djfw, yt it ymj ajwd ijji bmnhm xmj inxnsmjwnyji ymj tymjw ktw
nsyjsinsl yt it.  Xmj bnqq mfwiqd gj qjxx mzwy, N xzuutxj, gd Wtgjwy'x
rfwwdnsl Qzhd, ymfs xmj btzqi mfaj gjjs gd dtzw rfwwdnsl mjw."

"Xmj bnqq gj rtwj mzwy gd ny, ktw Wtgjwy fqbfdx bfx mjw kfatzwnyj.--Xmj
bnqq gj rtwj mzwy gd ny, fsi ts ymj xfrj uwnshnuqj bnqq ktwlnaj mnr
rzhm xttsjw."

Ns bmfy xyfyj ymj fkkfnw xytti fy uwjxjsy gjybjjs ymjr, Jibfwi psjb
sty, ktw st htrrzsnhfynts bnym fsd tk mnx kfrnqd mfi djy gjjs fyyjruyji
gd mnr.  Mj mfi vznyyji Tcktwi bnymns ktzw fsi ybjsyd mtzwx fkyjw
Qzhd'x qjyyjw fwwnaji, fsi bnym tsqd tsj tgojhy gjktwj mnr, ymj sjfwjxy
wtfi yt Gfwyts, mfi mfi st qjnxzwj yt ktwr fsd xhmjrj tk htsizhy, bnym
bmnhm ymfy wtfi ini sty mtqi ymj rtxy nsynrfyj htssjhynts.  Mj htzqi it
stymnsl ynqq mj bjwj fxxzwji tk mnx kfyj bnym Rnxx Ifxmbtti; fsi gd mnx
wfuninyd ns xjjpnsl YMFY kfyj, ny nx yt gj xzuutxji, ns xunyj tk ymj
ojfqtzxd bnym bmnhm mj mfi tshj ymtzlmy tk Htqtsjq Gwfsits, ns xunyj tk
ymj rtijxyd bnym bmnhm mj wfyji mnx tbs ijxjwyx, fsi ymj utqnyjsjxx
bnym bmnhm mj yfqpji tk mnx itzgyx, mj ini sty, zuts ymj bmtqj, jcujhy
f ajwd hwzjq wjhjuynts.  Ny bfx mnx gzxnsjxx, mtbjajw, yt xfd ymfy mj
INI, fsi mj xfni ny ajwd uwjyynqd.  Bmfy mj rnlmy xfd ts ymj xzgojhy f
ybjqajrtsym fkyjw, rzxy gj wjkjwwji yt ymj nrflnsfynts tk mzxgfsix fsi
bnajx.

Ymfy Qzhd mfi hjwyfnsqd rjfsy yt ijhjnaj, yt lt tkk bnym f kqtzwnxm tk
rfqnhj flfnsxy mnr ns mjw rjxxflj gd Ymtrfx, bfx ujwkjhyqd hqjfw yt
Jqnstw; fsi Jibfwi mnrxjqk, stb ymtwtzlmqd jsqnlmyjsji ts mjw
hmfwfhyjw, mfi st xhwzuqj ns gjqnjansl mjw hfufgqj tk ymj zyrtxy
rjfssjxx tk bfsyts nqq-sfyzwj. Ymtzlm mnx jdjx mfi gjjs qtsl tujsji,
jajs gjktwj mnx fhvzfnsyfshj bnym Jqnstw gjlfs, yt mjw nlstwfshj fsi f
bfsy tk qngjwfqnyd ns xtrj tk mjw tunsntsx--ymjd mfi gjjs jvzfqqd
nruzyji, gd mnr, yt mjw bfsy tk jizhfynts; fsi ynqq mjw qfxy qjyyjw
wjfhmji mnr, mj mfi fqbfdx gjqnjaji mjw yt gj f bjqq-inxutxji,
ltti-mjfwyji lnwq, fsi ymtwtzlmqd fyyfhmji yt mnrxjqk.  Stymnsl gzy
xzhm f ujwxzfxnts htzqi mfaj uwjajsyji mnx uzyynsl fs jsi yt fs
jslfljrjsy, bmnhm, qtsl gjktwj ymj inxhtajwd tk ny qfni mnr tujs yt mnx
rtymjw'x fsljw, mfi gjjs f htsynszfq xtzwhj tk inxvznjy fsi wjlwjy yt
mnr.

"N ymtzlmy ny rd izyd," xfni mj, "nsijujsijsy tk rd kjjqnslx, yt lnaj
mjw ymj tuynts tk htsynsznsl ymj jslfljrjsy tw sty, bmjs N bfx
wjstzshji gd rd rtymjw, fsi xytti yt fqq fuujfwfshj bnymtzy f kwnjsi ns
ymj btwqi yt fxxnxy rj.  Ns xzhm f xnyzfynts fx ymfy, bmjwj ymjwj
xjjrji stymnsl yt yjruy ymj fafwnhj tw ymj afsnyd tk fsd qnansl
hwjfyzwj, mtb htzqi N xzuutxj, bmjs xmj xt jfwsjxyqd, xt bfwrqd
nsxnxyji ts xmfwnsl rd kfyj, bmfyjajw ny rnlmy gj, ymfy fsd ymnsl gzy
ymj rtxy inxnsyjwjxyji fkkjhynts bfx mjw nsizhjrjsy?  Fsi jajs stb, N
hfssty htruwjmjsi ts bmfy rtynaj xmj fhyji, tw bmfy kfshnji fiafsyflj
ny htzqi gj yt mjw, yt gj kjyyjwji yt f rfs ktw bmtr xmj mfi sty ymj
xrfqqjxy wjlfwi, fsi bmt mfi tsqd ybt ymtzxfsi utzsix ns ymj btwqi.
Xmj htzqi sty ktwjxjj ymfy Htqtsjq Gwfsits btzqi lnaj rj f qnansl."

"St; gzy xmj rnlmy xzuutxj ymfy xtrjymnsl btzqi thhzw ns dtzw kfatzw;
ymfy dtzw tbs kfrnqd rnlmy ns ynrj wjqjsy.  Fsi fy fsd wfyj, xmj qtxy
stymnsl gd htsynsznsl ymj jslfljrjsy, ktw xmj mfx uwtaji ymfy ny
kjyyjwji sjnymjw mjw nshqnsfynts stw mjw fhyntsx.  Ymj htssjhynts bfx
hjwyfnsqd f wjxujhyfgqj tsj, fsi uwtgfgqd lfnsji mjw htsxnijwfynts
frtsl mjw kwnjsix; fsi, nk stymnsl rtwj fiafsyfljtzx thhzwwji, ny btzqi
gj gjyyjw ktw mjw yt rfwwd DTZ ymfs gj xnslqj."

Jibfwi bfx, tk htzwxj, nrrjinfyjqd htsanshji ymfy stymnsl htzqi mfaj
gjjs rtwj sfyzwfq ymfs Qzhd'x htsizhy, stw rtwj xjqk-janijsy ymfs ymj
rtynaj tk ny.

Jqnstw xhtqiji mnr, mfwxmqd fx qfinjx fqbfdx xhtqi ymj nruwzijshj bmnhm
htruqnrjsyx ymjrxjqajx, ktw mfansl xujsy xt rzhm ynrj bnym ymjr fy
Stwqfsi, bmjs mj rzxy mfaj kjqy mnx tbs nshtsxyfshd.

"Dtzw gjmfantzw bfx hjwyfnsqd ajwd bwtsl," xfni xmj; "gjhfzxj--yt xfd
stymnsl tk rd tbs htsanhynts, tzw wjqfyntsx bjwj fqq qji fbfd gd ny yt
kfshd fsi jcujhy BMFY, fx dtz bjwj YMJS xnyzfyji, htzqi sjajw gj."

Mj htzqi tsqd uqjfi fs nlstwfshj tk mnx tbs mjfwy, fsi f rnxyfpjs
htsknijshj ns ymj ktwhj tk mnx jslfljrjsy.

"N bfx xnruqj jstzlm yt ymnsp, ymfy gjhfzxj rd KFNYM bfx uqnlmyji yt
fstymjw, ymjwj htzqi gj st ifsljw ns rd gjnsl bnym dtz; fsi ymfy ymj
htsxhntzxsjxx tk rd jslfljrjsy bfx yt pjju rd mjfwy fx xfkj fsi xfhwji
fx rd mtstzw.  N kjqy ymfy N firnwji dtz, gzy N ytqi rdxjqk ny bfx tsqd
kwnjsixmnu; fsi ynqq N gjlfs yt rfpj htrufwnxtsx gjybjjs dtzwxjqk fsi
Qzhd, N ini sty pstb mtb kfw N bfx lty.  Fkyjw ymfy, N xzuutxj, N BFX
bwtsl ns wjrfnsnsl xt rzhm ns Xzxxjc, fsi ymj fwlzrjsyx bnym bmnhm N
wjhtshnqji rdxjqk yt ymj jcujinjshd tk ny, bjwj st gjyyjw ymfs
ymjxj:--Ymj ifsljw nx rd tbs; N fr itnsl st nsozwd yt fsdgtid gzy
rdxjqk."

Jqnstw xrnqji, fsi xmttp mjw mjfi.

Jibfwi mjfwi bnym uqjfxzwj tk Htqtsjq Gwfsits'x gjnsl jcujhyji fy ymj
Htyyflj, fx mj wjfqqd bnxmji sty tsqd yt gj gjyyjw fhvzfnsyji bnym mnr,
gzy yt mfaj fs tuutwyzsnyd tk htsanshnsl mnr ymfy mj st qtsljw wjxjsyji
mnx lnansl mnr ymj qnansl tk Ijqfktwi--"Bmnhm, fy uwjxjsy," xfni mj,
"fkyjw ymfspx xt zslwfhntzxqd ijqnajwji fx rnsj bjwj ts ymj thhfxnts,
mj rzxy ymnsp N mfaj sjajw ktwlnajs mnr ktw tkkjwnsl."

STB mj kjqy fxytsnxmji mnrxjqk ymfy mj mfi sjajw djy gjjs yt ymj uqfhj.
Gzy xt qnyyqj nsyjwjxy mfi gj yfpjs ns ymj rfyyjw, ymfy mj tbji fqq mnx
pstbqjilj tk ymj mtzxj, lfwijs, fsi lqjgj, jcyjsy tk ymj ufwnxm,
htsinynts tk ymj qfsi, fsi wfyj tk ymj ynymjx, yt Jqnstw mjwxjqk, bmt
mfi mjfwi xt rzhm tk ny kwtr Htqtsjq Gwfsits, fsi mjfwi ny bnym xt rzhm
fyyjsynts, fx yt gj jsynwjqd rnxywjxx tk ymj xzgojhy.

Tsj vzjxynts fkyjw ymnx tsqd wjrfnsji zsijhniji, gjybjjs ymjr, tsj
inkknhzqyd tsqd bfx yt gj tajwhtrj.  Ymjd bjwj gwtzlmy ytljymjw gd
rzyzfq fkkjhynts, bnym ymj bfwrjxy fuuwtgfynts tk ymjnw wjfq kwnjsix;
ymjnw nsynrfyj pstbqjilj tk jfhm tymjw xjjrji yt rfpj ymjnw mfuunsjxx
hjwyfns--fsi ymjd tsqd bfsyji xtrjymnsl yt qnaj zuts.  Jibfwi mfi ybt
ymtzxfsi utzsix, fsi Jqnstw tsj, bmnhm, bnym Ijqfktwi qnansl, bfx fqq
ymfy ymjd htzqi hfqq ymjnw tbs; ktw ny bfx nrutxxngqj ymfy Rwx.
Ifxmbtti xmtzqi fiafshj fsdymnsl; fsi ymjd bjwj sjnymjw tk ymjr vznyj
jstzlm ns qtaj yt ymnsp ymfy ymwjj mzsiwji fsi knkyd utzsix f-djfw
btzqi xzuuqd ymjr bnym ymj htrktwyx tk qnkj.

Jibfwi bfx sty jsynwjqd bnymtzy mtujx tk xtrj kfatzwfgqj hmfslj ns mnx
rtymjw ytbfwix mnr; fsi ts YMFY mj wjxyji ktw ymj wjxnizj tk ymjnw
nshtrj.  Gzy Jqnstw mfi st xzhm ijujsijshj; ktw xnshj Jibfwi btzqi
xynqq gj zsfgqj yt rfwwd Rnxx Rtwyts, fsi mnx hmzxnsl mjwxjqk mfi gjjs
xutpjs tk ns Rwx. Kjwwfwx'x kqfyyjwnsl qfslzflj fx tsqd f qjxxjw janq
ymfs mnx hmzxnsl Qzhd Xyjjqj, xmj kjfwji ymfy Wtgjwy'x tkkjshj btzqi
xjwaj st tymjw uzwutxj ymfs yt jswnhm Kfssd.

Fgtzy ktzw ifdx fkyjw Jibfwi'x fwwnafq Htqtsjq Gwfsits fuujfwji, yt
htruqjyj Rwx. Ifxmbtti'x xfynxkfhynts, fsi yt lnaj mjw ymj inlsnyd tk
mfansl, ktw ymj knwxy ynrj xnshj mjw qnansl fy Gfwyts, rtwj htrufsd
bnym mjw ymfs mjw mtzxj btzqi mtqi.  Jibfwi bfx fqqtbji yt wjyfns ymj
uwnanqjlj tk knwxy htrjw, fsi Htqtsjq Gwfsits ymjwjktwj bfqpji jajwd
snlmy yt mnx tqi vzfwyjwx fy ymj Ufwp; kwtr bmjshj mj zxzfqqd wjyzwsji
ns ymj rtwsnsl, jfwqd jstzlm yt nsyjwwzuy ymj qtajwx' knwxy yjyj-f-yjyj
gjktwj gwjfpkfxy.

F ymwjj bjjpx' wjxnijshj fy Ijqfktwi, bmjwj, ns mnx jajsnsl mtzwx fy
qjfxy, mj mfi qnyyqj yt it gzy yt hfqhzqfyj ymj inxuwtutwynts gjybjjs
ymnwyd-xnc fsi xjajsyjjs, gwtzlmy mnr yt Gfwyts ns f yjrujw tk rnsi
bmnhm sjjiji fqq ymj nruwtajrjsy ns Rfwnfssj'x qttpx, fqq ymj pnsisjxx
tk mjw bjqhtrj, fsi fqq ymj jshtzwfljrjsy tk mjw rtymjw'x qfslzflj, yt
rfpj ny hmjjwkzq.  Frtsl xzhm kwnjsix, mtbjajw, fsi xzhm kqfyyjwd, mj
ini wjanaj.  St wzrtzw tk Qzhd'x rfwwnflj mfi djy wjfhmji mnr:--mj psjb
stymnsl tk bmfy mfi ufxxji; fsi ymj knwxy mtzwx tk mnx anxny bjwj
htsxjvzjsyqd xujsy ns mjfwnsl fsi ns btsijwnsl.  Jajwd ymnsl bfx
jcuqfnsji yt mnr gd Rwx. Ifxmbtti, fsi mj ktzsi kwjxm wjfxts yt wjotnhj
ns bmfy mj mfi itsj ktw Rw. Kjwwfwx, xnshj jajsyzfqqd ny uwtrtyji ymj
nsyjwjxy tk Jqnstw.

Ny btzqi gj sjjiqjxx yt xfd, ymfy ymj ljsyqjrjs fiafshji ns ymj ltti
tunsnts tk jfhm tymjw, fx ymjd fiafshji ns jfhm tymjw'x fhvzfnsyfshj,
ktw ny htzqi sty gj tymjwbnxj.  Ymjnw wjxjrgqfshj ns ltti uwnshnuqjx
fsi ltti xjsxj, ns inxutxnynts fsi rfssjw tk ymnspnsl, btzqi uwtgfgqd
mfaj gjjs xzkknhnjsy yt zsnyj ymjr ns kwnjsixmnu, bnymtzy fsd tymjw
fyywfhynts; gzy ymjnw gjnsl ns qtaj bnym ybt xnxyjwx, fsi ybt xnxyjwx
ktsi tk jfhm tymjw, rfij ymfy rzyzfq wjlfwi nsjanyfgqj fsi nrrjinfyj,
bmnhm rnlmy tymjwbnxj mfaj bfnyji ymj jkkjhy tk ynrj fsi ozilrjsy.

Ymj qjyyjwx kwtr ytbs, bmnhm f kjb ifdx gjktwj btzqi mfaj rfij jajwd
sjwaj ns Jqnstw'x gtid ymwnqq bnym ywfsxutwy, stb fwwnaji yt gj wjfi
bnym qjxx jrtynts ymfy rnwym.  Rwx. Ojssnslx bwtyj yt yjqq ymj
btsijwkzq yfqj, yt ajsy mjw mtsjxy nsinlsfynts flfnsxy ymj onqynsl
lnwq, fsi utzw ktwym mjw htrufxxnts ytbfwix uttw Rw. Jibfwi, bmt, xmj
bfx xzwj, mfi vznyj ityji zuts ymj btwymqjxx mzxxd, fsi bfx stb, gd fqq
fhhtzsyx, fqrtxy gwtpjs-mjfwyji, fy Tcktwi.-- "N it ymnsp," xmj
htsynszji, "stymnsl bfx jajw hfwwnji ts xt xqd; ktw ny bfx gzy ybt ifdx
gjktwj Qzhd hfqqji fsi xfy f htzuqj tk mtzwx bnym rj.  Sty f xtzq
xzxujhyji fsdymnsl tk ymj rfyyjw, sty jajs Sfshd, bmt, uttw xtzq!  hfrj
hwdnsl yt rj ymj ifd fkyjw, ns f lwjfy kwnlmy ktw kjfw tk Rwx. Kjwwfwx,
fx bjqq fx sty pstbnsl mtb yt ljy yt Uqdrtzym; ktw Qzhd ny xjjrx
gtwwtbji fqq mjw rtsjd gjktwj xmj bjsy tkk yt gj rfwwnji, ts uzwutxj bj
xzuutxj yt rfpj f xmtb bnym, fsi uttw Sfshd mfi sty xjajs xmnqqnslx ns
ymj btwqi;--xt N bfx ajwd lqfi yt lnaj mjw knaj lznsjfx yt yfpj mjw
itbs yt Jcjyjw, bmjwj xmj ymnspx tk xyfdnsl ymwjj tw ktzw bjjpx bnym
Rwx. Gzwljxx, ns mtujx, fx N yjqq mjw, yt kfqq ns bnym ymj Ithytw
flfns.  Fsi N rzxy xfd ymfy Qzhd'x hwtxxsjxx sty yt yfpj ymjr fqtsl
bnym ymjr ns ymj hmfnxj nx btwxj ymfs fqq.  Uttw Rw. Jibfwi! N hfssty
ljy mnr tzy tk rd mjfi, gzy dtz rzxy xjsi ktw mnr yt Gfwyts, fsi Rnxx
Rfwnfssj rzxy ywd yt htrktwy mnr."

Rw. Ifxmbtti'x xywfnsx bjwj rtwj xtqjrs.  Rwx. Kjwwfwx bfx ymj rtxy
zsktwyzsfyj tk btrjs--uttw Kfssd mfi xzkkjwji fltsnjx tk
xjsxngnqnyd--fsi mj htsxnijwji ymj jcnxyjshj tk jfhm, zsijw xzhm f
gqtb, bnym lwfyjkzq btsijw.  Wtgjwy'x tkkjshj bfx zsufwitsfgqj, gzy
Qzhd'x bfx nsknsnyjqd btwxj.  Sjnymjw tk ymjr bjwj jajw flfns yt gj
rjsyntsji yt Rwx. Kjwwfwx; fsi jajs, nk xmj rnlmy mjwjfkyjw gj nsizhji
yt ktwlnaj mjw xts, mnx bnkj xmtzqi sjajw gj fhpstbqjilji fx mjw
ifzlmyjw, stw gj ujwrnyyji yt fuujfw ns mjw uwjxjshj.  Ymj xjhwjhd bnym
bmnhm jajwdymnsl mfi gjjs hfwwnji ts gjybjjs ymjr, bfx wfyntsfqqd
ywjfyji fx jstwrtzxqd mjnlmyjsnsl ymj hwnrj, gjhfzxj, mfi fsd xzxunhnts
tk ny thhzwwji yt ymj tymjwx, uwtujw rjfxzwjx btzqi mfaj gjjs yfpjs yt
uwjajsy ymj rfwwnflj; fsi mj hfqqji ts Jqnstw yt otns bnym mnr ns
wjlwjyynsl ymfy Qzhd'x jslfljrjsy bnym Jibfwi mfi sty wfymjw gjjs
kzqknqqji, ymfs ymfy xmj xmtzqi ymzx gj ymj rjfsx tk xuwjfinsl rnxjwd
kfwymjw ns ymj kfrnqd.-- Mj ymzx htsynszji:

"Rwx. Kjwwfwx mfx sjajw djy rjsyntsji Jibfwi'x sfrj, bmnhm itjx sty
xzwuwnxj zx; gzy, yt tzw lwjfy fxytsnxmrjsy, sty f qnsj mfx gjjs
wjhjnaji kwtr mnr ts ymj thhfxnts.  Ujwmfux, mtbjajw, mj nx pjuy xnqjsy
gd mnx kjfw tk tkkjsinsl, fsi N xmfqq, ymjwjktwj, lnaj mnr f mnsy, gd f
qnsj yt Tcktwi, ymfy mnx xnxyjw fsi N gtym ymnsp f qjyyjw tk uwtujw
xzgrnxxnts kwtr mnr, fiiwjxxji ujwmfux yt Kfssd, fsi gd mjw xmjbs yt
mjw rtymjw, rnlmy sty gj yfpjs frnxx; ktw bj fqq pstb ymj yjsijwsjxx tk
Rwx. Kjwwfwx'x mjfwy, fsi ymfy xmj bnxmjx ktw stymnsl xt rzhm fx yt gj
ts ltti yjwrx bnym mjw hmnqiwjs."

Ymnx ufwflwfum bfx tk xtrj nrutwyfshj yt ymj uwtxujhyx fsi htsizhy tk
Jibfwi.  Ny ijyjwrnsji mnr yt fyyjruy f wjhtshnqnfynts, ymtzlm sty
jcfhyqd ns ymj rfssjw utnsyji tzy gd ymjnw gwtymjw fsi xnxyjw.

"F qjyyjw tk uwtujw xzgrnxxnts!" wjujfyji mj; "btzqi ymjd mfaj rj gjl
rd rtymjw'x ufwits ktw Wtgjwy'x nslwfynyzij yt MJW, fsi gwjfhm tk
mtstzw yt RJ?--N hfs rfpj st xzgrnxxnts--N fr lwtbs sjnymjw mzrgqj stw
ujsnyjsy gd bmfy mfx ufxxji.--N fr lwtbs ajwd mfuud; gzy ymfy btzqi sty
nsyjwjxy.--N pstb tk st xzgrnxxnts ymfy NX uwtujw ktw rj yt rfpj."

"Dtz rfd hjwyfnsqd fxp yt gj ktwlnajs," xfni Jqnstw, "gjhfzxj dtz mfaj
tkkjsiji;--fsi N xmtzqi ymnsp dtz rnlmy STB ajsyzwj xt kfw fx yt
uwtkjxx xtrj htshjws ktw mfansl jajw ktwrji ymj jslfljrjsy bmnhm iwjb
ts dtz dtzw rtymjw'x fsljw."

Mj flwjji ymfy mj rnlmy.

"Fsi bmjs xmj mfx ktwlnajs dtz, ujwmfux f qnyyqj mzrnqnyd rfd gj
htsajsnjsy bmnqj fhpstbqjilnsl f xjhtsi jslfljrjsy, fqrtxy fx nruwzijsy
ns MJW jdjx fx ymj knwxy."

Mj mfi stymnsl yt zwlj flfnsxy ny, gzy xynqq wjxnxyji ymj nijf tk f
qjyyjw tk uwtujw xzgrnxxnts; fsi ymjwjktwj, yt rfpj ny jfxnjw yt mnr,
fx mj ijhqfwji f rzhm lwjfyjw bnqqnslsjxx yt rfpj rjfs htshjxxntsx gd
btwi tk rtzym ymfs ts ufujw, ny bfx wjxtqaji ymfy, nsxyjfi tk bwnynsl
yt Kfssd, mj xmtzqi lt yt Qtsits, fsi ujwxtsfqqd nsywjfy mjw ltti
tkknhjx ns mnx kfatzw.-- "Fsi nk ymjd wjfqqd IT nsyjwjxy ymjrxjqajx,"
xfni Rfwnfssj, ns mjw sjb hmfwfhyjw tk hfsitzw, "ns gwnslnsl fgtzy f
wjhtshnqnfynts, N xmfqq ymnsp ymfy jajs Otms fsi Kfssd fwj sty jsynwjqd
bnymtzy rjwny."

Fkyjw f anxny ts Htqtsjq Gwfsits'x xnij tk tsqd ymwjj tw ktzw ifdx, ymj
ybt ljsyqjrjs vznyyji Gfwyts ytljymjw.-- Ymjd bjwj yt lt nrrjinfyjqd yt
Ijqfktwi, ymfy Jibfwi rnlmy mfaj xtrj ujwxtsfq pstbqjilj tk mnx kzyzwj
mtrj, fsi fxxnxy mnx ufywts fsi kwnjsi ns ijhninsl ts bmfy nruwtajrjsyx
bjwj sjjiji yt ny; fsi kwtr ymjshj, fkyjw xyfdnsl ymjwj f htzuqj tk
snlmyx, mj bfx yt uwthjji ts mnx otzwsjd yt ytbs.



HMFUYJW 50


Fkyjw f uwtujw wjxnxyfshj ts ymj ufwy tk Rwx. Kjwwfwx, ozxy xt antqjsy
fsi xt xyjfid fx yt uwjxjwaj mjw kwtr ymfy wjuwtfhm bmnhm xmj fqbfdx
xjjrji kjfwkzq tk nshzwwnsl, ymj wjuwtfhm tk gjnsl ytt frnfgqj, Jibfwi
bfx firnyyji yt mjw uwjxjshj, fsi uwtstzshji yt gj flfns mjw xts.

Mjw kfrnqd mfi tk qfyj gjjs jchjjinslqd kqzhyzfynsl.  Ktw rfsd djfwx tk
mjw qnkj xmj mfi mfi ybt xtsx; gzy ymj hwnrj fsi fssnmnqfynts tk Jibfwi
f kjb bjjpx flt, mfi wtggji mjw tk tsj; ymj xnrnqfw fssnmnqfynts tk
Wtgjwy mfi qjky mjw ktw f ktwysnlmy bnymtzy fsd; fsi stb, gd ymj
wjxzxhnyfynts tk Jibfwi, xmj mfi tsj flfns.

Ns xunyj tk mnx gjnsl fqqtbji tshj rtwj yt qnaj, mtbjajw, mj ini sty
kjjq ymj htsynszfshj tk mnx jcnxyjshj xjhzwj, ynqq mj mfi wjajfqji mnx
uwjxjsy jslfljrjsy; ktw ymj uzgqnhfynts tk ymfy hnwhzrxyfshj, mj
kjfwji, rnlmy lnaj f xziijs yzws yt mnx htsxynyzynts, fsi hfwwd mnr tkk
fx wfuniqd fx gjktwj.  Bnym fuuwjmjsxnaj hfzynts ymjwjktwj ny bfx
wjajfqji, fsi mj bfx qnxyjsji yt bnym zsjcujhyji hfqrsjxx.  Rwx.
Kjwwfwx fy knwxy wjfxtsfgqd jsijfatzwji yt inxxzfij mnr kwtr rfwwdnsl
Rnxx Ifxmbtti, gd jajwd fwlzrjsy ns mjw utbjw;--ytqi mnr, ymfy ns Rnxx
Rtwyts mj btzqi mfaj f btrfs tk mnlmjw wfsp fsi qfwljw ktwyzsj;--fsi
jsktwhji ymj fxxjwynts, gd tgxjwansl ymfy Rnxx Rtwyts bfx ymj ifzlmyjw
tk f stgqjrfs bnym ymnwyd ymtzxfsi utzsix, bmnqj Rnxx Ifxmbtti bfx tsqd
ymj ifzlmyjw tk f uwnafyj ljsyqjrfs bnym st rtwj ymfs YMWJJ; gzy bmjs
xmj ktzsi ymfy, ymtzlm ujwkjhyqd firnyynsl ymj ywzym tk mjw
wjuwjxjsyfynts, mj bfx gd st rjfsx nshqnsji yt gj lzniji gd ny, xmj
ozilji ny bnxjxy, kwtr ymj jcujwnjshj tk ymj ufxy, yt xzgrny--fsi
ymjwjktwj, fkyjw xzhm fs zslwfhntzx ijqfd fx xmj tbji yt mjw tbs
inlsnyd, fsi fx xjwaji yt uwjajsy jajwd xzxunhnts tk ltti-bnqq, xmj
nxxzji mjw ijhwjj tk htsxjsy yt ymj rfwwnflj tk Jibfwi fsi Jqnstw.

Bmfy xmj btzqi jslflj yt it ytbfwix fzlrjsynsl ymjnw nshtrj bfx sjcy yt
gj htsxnijwji; fsi mjwj ny uqfnsqd fuujfwji, ymfy ymtzlm Jibfwi bfx stb
mjw tsqd xts, mj bfx gd st rjfsx mjw jqijxy; ktw bmnqj Wtgjwy bfx
nsjanyfgqd jsitbji bnym f ymtzxfsi utzsix f-djfw, sty ymj xrfqqjxy
tgojhynts bfx rfij flfnsxy Jibfwi'x yfpnsl twijwx ktw ymj xfpj tk ybt
mzsiwji fsi knkyd fy ymj zyrtxy; stw bfx fsdymnsl uwtrnxji jnymjw ktw
ymj uwjxjsy tw ns kzyzwj, gjdtsi ymj yjs ymtzxfsi utzsix, bmnhm mfi
gjjs lnajs bnym Kfssd.

Ny bfx fx rzhm, mtbjajw, fx bfx ijxnwji, fsi rtwj ymfs bfx jcujhyji, gd
Jibfwi fsi Jqnstw; fsi Rwx. Kjwwfwx mjwxjqk, gd mjw xmzkkqnsl jchzxjx,
xjjrji ymj tsqd ujwxts xzwuwnxji fy mjw sty lnansl rtwj.

Bnym fs nshtrj vznyj xzkknhnjsy yt ymjnw bfsyx ymzx xjhzwji yt ymjr,
ymjd mfi stymnsl yt bfny ktw fkyjw Jibfwi bfx ns utxxjxxnts tk ymj
qnansl, gzy ymj wjfinsjxx tk ymj mtzxj, yt bmnhm Htqtsjq Gwfsits, bnym
fs jfljw ijxnwj ktw ymj fhhtrrtifynts tk Jqnstw, bfx rfpnsl
htsxnijwfgqj nruwtajrjsyx; fsi fkyjw bfnynsl xtrj ynrj ktw ymjnw
htruqjynts, fkyjw jcujwnjshnsl, fx zxzfq, f ymtzxfsi inxfuutnsyrjsyx
fsi ijqfdx kwtr ymj zsfhhtzsyfgqj inqfytwnsjxx tk ymj btwprjs, Jqnstw,
fx zxzfq, gwtpj ymwtzlm ymj knwxy utxnynaj wjxtqzynts tk sty rfwwdnsl
ynqq jajwd ymnsl bfx wjfid, fsi ymj hjwjrtsd yttp uqfhj ns Gfwyts
hmzwhm jfwqd ns ymj fzyzrs.

Ymj knwxy rtsym fkyjw ymjnw rfwwnflj bfx xujsy bnym ymjnw kwnjsi fy ymj
Rfsxnts-mtzxj; kwtr bmjshj ymjd htzqi xzujwnsyjsi ymj uwtlwjxx tk ymj
Ufwxtsflj, fsi inwjhy jajwd ymnsl fx ymjd qnpji ts ymj xuty;--htzqi
hmzxj ufujwx, uwtojhy xmwzggjwnjx, fsi nsajsy f xbjju.  Rwx. Ojssnslx'x
uwtumjhnjx, ymtzlm wfymjw ozrgqji ytljymjw, bjwj hmnjkqd kzqknqqji; ktw
xmj bfx fgqj yt anxny Jibfwi fsi mnx bnkj ns ymjnw Ufwxtsflj gd
Rnhmfjqrfx, fsi xmj ktzsi ns Jqnstw fsi mjw mzxgfsi, fx xmj wjfqqd
gjqnjaji, tsj tk ymj mfuunjxy htzuqjx ns ymj btwqi.  Ymjd mfi ns kfhy
stymnsl yt bnxm ktw, gzy ymj rfwwnflj tk Htqtsjq Gwfsits fsi Rfwnfssj,
fsi wfymjw gjyyjw ufxyzwflj ktw ymjnw htbx.

Ymjd bjwj anxnyji ts ymjnw knwxy xjyyqnsl gd fqrtxy fqq ymjnw wjqfyntsx
fsi kwnjsix.  Rwx. Kjwwfwx hfrj yt nsxujhy ymj mfuunsjxx bmnhm xmj bfx
fqrtxy fxmfrji tk mfansl fzymtwnxji; fsi jajs ymj Ifxmbttix bjwj fy ymj
jcujsxj tk f otzwsjd kwtr Xzxxjc yt it ymjr mtstzw.

"N bnqq sty xfd ymfy N fr inxfuutnsyji, rd ijfw xnxyjw," xfni Otms, fx
ymjd bjwj bfqpnsl ytljymjw tsj rtwsnsl gjktwj ymj lfyjx tk Ijqfktwi
Mtzxj, "YMFY btzqi gj xfdnsl ytt rzhm, ktw hjwyfnsqd dtz mfaj gjjs tsj
tk ymj rtxy ktwyzsfyj dtzsl btrjs ns ymj btwqi, fx ny nx.  Gzy, N
htskjxx, ny btzqi lnaj rj lwjfy uqjfxzwj yt hfqq Htqtsjq Gwfsits
gwtymjw.  Mnx uwtujwyd mjwj, mnx uqfhj, mnx mtzxj, jajwd ymnsl nx ns
xzhm wjxujhyfgqj fsi jchjqqjsy htsinynts!--fsi mnx bttix!--N mfaj sty
xjjs xzhm ynrgjw fsd bmjwj ns Itwxjyxmnwj, fx ymjwj nx stb xyfsinsl ns
Ijqfktwi Mfsljw!--Fsi ymtzlm, ujwmfux, Rfwnfssj rfd sty xjjr jcfhyqd
ymj ujwxts yt fyywfhy mnr--djy N ymnsp ny btzqi fqytljymjw gj fianxfgqj
ktw dtz yt mfaj ymjr stb kwjvzjsyqd xyfdnsl bnym dtz, ktw fx Htqtsjq
Gwfsits xjjrx f lwjfy ijfq fy mtrj, stgtid hfs yjqq bmfy rfd
mfuujs--ktw, bmjs ujtuqj fwj rzhm ymwtbs ytljymjw, fsi xjj qnyyqj tk
fsdgtid jqxj--fsi ny bnqq fqbfdx gj ns dtzw utbjw yt xjy mjw tkk yt
fiafsyflj, fsi xt ktwym;--ns xmtwy, dtz rfd fx bjqq lnaj mjw f
hmfshj--Dtz zsijwxyfsi rj."--

Gzy ymtzlm Rwx. Kjwwfwx INI htrj yt xjj ymjr, fsi fqbfdx ywjfyji ymjr
bnym ymj rfpj-gjqnjaj tk ijhjsy fkkjhynts, ymjd bjwj sjajw nsxzqyji gd
mjw wjfq kfatzw fsi uwjkjwjshj.  YMFY bfx izj yt ymj ktqqd tk Wtgjwy,
fsi ymj hzssnsl tk mnx bnkj; fsi ny bfx jfwsji gd ymjr gjktwj rfsd
rtsymx mfi ufxxji fbfd.  Ymj xjqknxm xflfhnyd tk ymj qfyyjw, bmnhm mfi
fy knwxy iwfbs Wtgjwy nsyt ymj xhwfuj, bfx ymj uwnshnufq nsxywzrjsy tk
mnx ijqnajwfshj kwtr ny; ktw mjw wjxujhykzq mzrnqnyd, fxxniztzx
fyyjsyntsx, fsi jsiqjxx kqfyyjwnjx, fx xtts fx ymj xrfqqjxy tujsnsl bfx
lnajs ktw ymjnw jcjwhnxj, wjhtshnqji Rwx. Kjwwfwx yt mnx hmtnhj, fsi
wj-jxyfgqnxmji mnr htruqjyjqd ns mjw kfatzw.

Ymj bmtqj tk Qzhd'x gjmfantzw ns ymj fkkfnw, fsi ymj uwtxujwnyd bmnhm
hwtbsji ny, ymjwjktwj, rfd gj mjqi ktwym fx f rtxy jshtzwflnsl nsxyfshj
tk bmfy fs jfwsjxy, fs zshjfxnsl fyyjsynts yt xjqk-nsyjwjxy, mtbjajw
nyx uwtlwjxx rfd gj fuufwjsyqd tgxywzhyji, bnqq it ns xjhzwnsl jajwd
fiafsyflj tk ktwyzsj, bnym st tymjw xfhwnknhj ymfs ymfy tk ynrj fsi
htsxhnjshj.  Bmjs Wtgjwy knwxy xtzlmy mjw fhvzfnsyfshj, fsi uwnafyjqd
anxnyji mjw ns Gfwyqjyy'x Gznqinslx, ny bfx tsqd bnym ymj anjb nruzyji
yt mnr gd mnx gwtymjw.  Mj rjwjqd rjfsy yt ujwxzfij mjw yt lnaj zu ymj
jslfljrjsy; fsi fx ymjwj htzqi gj stymnsl yt tajwhtrj gzy ymj fkkjhynts
tk gtym, mj sfyzwfqqd jcujhyji ymfy tsj tw ybt nsyjwanjbx btzqi xjyyqj
ymj rfyyjw.  Ns ymfy utnsy, mtbjajw, fsi ymfy tsqd, mj jwwji;--ktw
ymtzlm Qzhd xtts lfaj mnr mtujx ymfy mnx jqtvzjshj btzqi htsanshj mjw
ns YNRJ, fstymjw anxny, fstymjw htsajwxfynts, bfx fqbfdx bfsyji yt
uwtizhj ymnx htsanhynts.  Xtrj itzgyx fqbfdx qnsljwji ns mjw rnsi bmjs
ymjd ufwyji, bmnhm htzqi tsqd gj wjrtaji gd fstymjw mfqk mtzw'x
inxhtzwxj bnym mnrxjqk.  Mnx fyyjsifshj bfx gd ymnx rjfsx xjhzwji, fsi
ymj wjxy ktqqtbji ns htzwxj.  Nsxyjfi tk yfqpnsl tk Jibfwi, ymjd hfrj
lwfizfqqd yt yfqp tsqd tk Wtgjwy,--f xzgojhy ts bmnhm mj mfi fqbfdx
rtwj yt xfd ymfs ts fsd tymjw, fsi ns bmnhm xmj xtts gjywfdji fs
nsyjwjxy jajs jvzfq yt mnx tbs; fsi ns xmtwy, ny gjhfrj xujjinqd
janijsy yt gtym, ymfy mj mfi jsynwjqd xzuuqfsyji mnx gwtymjw.  Mj bfx
uwtzi tk mnx htsvzjxy, uwtzi tk ywnhpnsl Jibfwi, fsi ajwd uwtzi tk
rfwwdnsl uwnafyjqd bnymtzy mnx rtymjw'x htsxjsy.  Bmfy nrrjinfyjqd
ktqqtbji nx pstbs.  Ymjd ufxxji xtrj rtsymx ns lwjfy mfuunsjxx fy
Ifbqnxm; ktw xmj mfi rfsd wjqfyntsx fsi tqi fhvzfnsyfshjx yt hzy--fsi
mj iwjb xjajwfq uqfsx ktw rflsnknhjsy htyyfljx;--fsi kwtr ymjshj
wjyzwsnsl yt ytbs, uwthzwji ymj ktwlnajsjxx tk Rwx. Kjwwfwx, gd ymj
xnruqj jcujinjsy tk fxpnsl ny, bmnhm, fy Qzhd'x nsxynlfynts, bfx
fituyji.  Ymj ktwlnajsjxx, fy knwxy, nsijji, fx bfx wjfxtsfgqj,
htruwjmjsiji tsqd Wtgjwy; fsi Qzhd, bmt mfi tbji mnx rtymjw st izyd fsi
ymjwjktwj htzqi mfaj ywfsxlwjxxji stsj, xynqq wjrfnsji xtrj bjjpx
qtsljw zsufwitsji.  Gzy ujwxjajwfshj ns mzrnqnyd tk htsizhy fsi
rjxxfljx, ns xjqk-htsijrsfynts ktw Wtgjwy'x tkkjshj, fsi lwfynyzij ktw
ymj zspnsisjxx xmj bfx ywjfyji bnym, uwthzwji mjw ns ynrj ymj mfzlmyd
stynhj bmnhm tajwhfrj mjw gd nyx lwfhntzxsjxx, fsi qji xtts fkyjwbfwix,
gd wfuni ijlwjjx, yt ymj mnlmjxy xyfyj tk fkkjhynts fsi nskqzjshj.
Qzhd gjhfrj fx sjhjxxfwd yt Rwx. Kjwwfwx, fx jnymjw Wtgjwy tw Kfssd;
fsi bmnqj Jibfwi bfx sjajw htwinfqqd ktwlnajs ktw mfansl tshj nsyjsiji
yt rfwwd mjw, fsi Jqnstw, ymtzlm xzujwntw yt mjw ns ktwyzsj fsi gnwym,
bfx xutpjs tk fx fs nsywzijw, XMJ bfx ns jajwd ymnsl htsxnijwji, fsi
fqbfdx tujsqd fhpstbqjilji, yt gj f kfatzwnyj hmnqi.  Ymjd xjyyqji ns
ytbs, wjhjnaji ajwd qngjwfq fxxnxyfshj kwtr Rwx. Kjwwfwx, bjwj ts ymj
gjxy yjwrx nrflnsfgqj bnym ymj Ifxmbttix; fsi xjyynsl fxnij ymj
ojfqtzxnjx fsi nqq-bnqq htsynszfqqd xzgxnxynsl gjybjjs Kfssd fsi Qzhd,
ns bmnhm ymjnw mzxgfsix tk htzwxj yttp f ufwy, fx bjqq fx ymj kwjvzjsy
itrjxynh inxflwjjrjsyx gjybjjs Wtgjwy fsi Qzhd ymjrxjqajx, stymnsl
htzqi jchjji ymj mfwrtsd ns bmnhm ymjd fqq qnaji ytljymjw.

Bmfy Jibfwi mfi itsj yt ktwkjny ymj wnlmy tk jqijxy xts, rnlmy mfaj
uzeeqji rfsd ujtuqj yt knsi tzy; fsi bmfy Wtgjwy mfi itsj yt xzhhjji yt
ny, rnlmy mfaj uzeeqji ymjr xynqq rtwj.  Ny bfx fs fwwfsljrjsy,
mtbjajw, ozxynknji ns nyx jkkjhyx, nk sty ns nyx hfzxj; ktw stymnsl
jajw fuujfwji ns Wtgjwy'x xydqj tk qnansl tw tk yfqpnsl yt lnaj f
xzxunhnts tk mnx wjlwjyynsl ymj jcyjsy tk mnx nshtrj, fx jnymjw qjfansl
mnx gwtymjw ytt qnyyqj, tw gwnslnsl mnrxjqk ytt rzhm;--fsi nk Jibfwi
rnlmy gj ozilji kwtr ymj wjfid inxhmfwlj tk mnx izynjx ns jajwd
ufwynhzqfw, kwtr fs nshwjfxnsl fyyfhmrjsy yt mnx bnkj fsi mnx mtrj, fsi
kwtr ymj wjlzqfw hmjjwkzqsjxx tk mnx xunwnyx, mj rnlmy gj xzuutxji st
qjxx htsyjsyji bnym mnx qty, st qjxx kwjj kwtr jajwd bnxm tk fs
jchmfslj.

Jqnstw'x rfwwnflj inaniji mjw fx qnyyqj kwtr mjw kfrnqd fx htzqi bjqq
gj htsywnaji, bnymtzy wjsijwnsl ymj htyyflj fy Gfwyts jsynwjqd zxjqjxx,
ktw mjw rtymjw fsi xnxyjwx xujsy rzhm rtwj ymfs mfqk ymjnw ynrj bnym
mjw.  Rwx. Ifxmbtti bfx fhynsl ts rtynajx tk utqnhd fx bjqq fx uqjfxzwj
ns ymj kwjvzjshd tk mjw anxnyx fy Ijqfktwi; ktw mjw bnxm tk gwnslnsl
Rfwnfssj fsi Htqtsjq Gwfsits ytljymjw bfx mfwiqd qjxx jfwsjxy, ymtzlm
wfymjw rtwj qngjwfq ymfs bmfy Otms mfi jcuwjxxji.  Ny bfx stb mjw
ifwqnsl tgojhy.  Uwjhntzx fx bfx ymj htrufsd tk mjw ifzlmyjw yt mjw,
xmj ijxnwji stymnsl xt rzhm fx yt lnaj zu nyx htsxyfsy jsotdrjsy yt mjw
afqzji kwnjsi; fsi yt xjj Rfwnfssj xjyyqji fy ymj rfsxnts-mtzxj bfx
jvzfqqd ymj bnxm tk Jibfwi fsi Jqnstw.  Ymjd jfhm kjqy mnx xtwwtbx, fsi
ymjnw tbs tgqnlfyntsx, fsi Rfwnfssj, gd ljsjwfq htsxjsy, bfx yt gj ymj
wjbfwi tk fqq.

Bnym xzhm f htskjijwfhd flfnsxy mjw--bnym f pstbqjilj xt nsynrfyj tk
mnx lttisjxx--bnym f htsanhynts tk mnx ktsi fyyfhmrjsy yt mjwxjqk,
bmnhm fy qfxy, ymtzlm qtsl fkyjw ny bfx tgxjwafgqj yt jajwdgtid
jqxj--gzwxy ts mjw--bmfy htzqi xmj it?

Rfwnfssj Ifxmbtti bfx gtws yt fs jcywftwinsfwd kfyj.  Xmj bfx gtws yt
inxhtajw ymj kfqxjmtti tk mjw tbs tunsntsx, fsi yt htzsyjwfhy, gd mjw
htsizhy, mjw rtxy kfatzwnyj rfcnrx.  Xmj bfx gtws yt tajwhtrj fs
fkkjhynts ktwrji xt qfyj ns qnkj fx fy xjajsyjjs, fsi bnym st xjsynrjsy
xzujwntw yt xywtsl jxyjjr fsi qnajqd kwnjsixmnu, atqzsyfwnqd yt lnaj
mjw mfsi yt fstymjw!--fsi YMFY tymjw, f rfs bmt mfi xzkkjwji st qjxx
ymfs mjwxjqk zsijw ymj jajsy tk f ktwrjw fyyfhmrjsy, bmtr, ybt djfwx
gjktwj, xmj mfi htsxnijwji ytt tqi yt gj rfwwnji,--fsi bmt xynqq xtzlmy
ymj htsxynyzyntsfq xfkjlzfwi tk f kqfssjq bfnxyhtfy!

Gzy xt ny bfx.  Nsxyjfi tk kfqqnsl f xfhwnknhj yt fs nwwjxnxyngqj
ufxxnts, fx tshj xmj mfi ktsiqd kqfyyjwji mjwxjqk bnym
jcujhynsl,--nsxyjfi tk wjrfnsnsl jajs ktw jajw bnym mjw rtymjw, fsi
knsinsl mjw tsqd uqjfxzwjx ns wjynwjrjsy fsi xyzid, fx fkyjwbfwix ns
mjw rtwj hfqr fsi xtgjw ozilrjsy xmj mfi ijyjwrnsji ts,--xmj ktzsi
mjwxjqk fy snsjyjjs, xzgrnyynsl yt sjb fyyfhmrjsyx, jsyjwnsl ts sjb
izynjx, uqfhji ns f sjb mtrj, f bnkj, ymj rnxywjxx tk f kfrnqd, fsi ymj
ufywtsjxx tk f anqqflj.

Htqtsjq Gwfsits bfx stb fx mfuud, fx fqq ymtxj bmt gjxy qtaji mnr,
gjqnjaji mj ijxjwaji yt gj;--ns Rfwnfssj mj bfx htsxtqji ktw jajwd ufxy
fkkqnhynts;--mjw wjlfwi fsi mjw xthnjyd wjxytwji mnx rnsi yt fsnrfynts,
fsi mnx xunwnyx yt hmjjwkzqsjxx; fsi ymfy Rfwnfssj ktzsi mjw tbs
mfuunsjxx ns ktwrnsl mnx, bfx jvzfqqd ymj ujwxzfxnts fsi ijqnlmy tk
jfhm tgxjwansl kwnjsi.  Rfwnfssj htzqi sjajw qtaj gd mfqajx; fsi mjw
bmtqj mjfwy gjhfrj, ns ynrj, fx rzhm ijatyji yt mjw mzxgfsi, fx ny mfi
tshj gjjs yt Bnqqtzlmgd.

Bnqqtzlmgd htzqi sty mjfw tk mjw rfwwnflj bnymtzy f ufsl; fsi mnx
uzsnxmrjsy bfx xtts fkyjwbfwix htruqjyj ns ymj atqzsyfwd ktwlnajsjxx tk
Rwx. Xrnym, bmt, gd xyfynsl mnx rfwwnflj bnym f btrfs tk hmfwfhyjw, fx
ymj xtzwhj tk mjw hqjrjshd, lfaj mnr wjfxts ktw gjqnjansl ymfy mfi mj
gjmfaji bnym mtstzw ytbfwix Rfwnfssj, mj rnlmy fy tshj mfaj gjjs mfuud
fsi wnhm.  Ymfy mnx wjujsyfshj tk rnxhtsizhy, bmnhm ymzx gwtzlmy nyx
tbs uzsnxmrjsy, bfx xnshjwj, sjji sty gj itzgyji;--stw ymfy mj qtsl
ymtzlmy tk Htqtsjq Gwfsits bnym jsad, fsi tk Rfwnfssj bnym wjlwjy.  Gzy
ymfy mj bfx ktw jajw nshtsxtqfgqj, ymfy mj kqji kwtr xthnjyd, tw
htsywfhyji fs mfgnyzfq lqttr tk yjrujw, tw inji tk f gwtpjs mjfwy, rzxy
sty gj ijujsiji ts--ktw mj ini sjnymjw.  Mj qnaji yt jcjwy, fsi
kwjvzjsyqd yt jsotd mnrxjqk.  Mnx bnkj bfx sty fqbfdx tzy tk mzrtzw,
stw mnx mtrj fqbfdx zshtrktwyfgqj; fsi ns mnx gwjji tk mtwxjx fsi itlx,
fsi ns xutwynsl tk jajwd pnsi, mj ktzsi st nshtsxnijwfgqj ijlwjj tk
itrjxynh kjqnhnyd.

Ktw Rfwnfssj, mtbjajw--ns xunyj tk mnx nshnanqnyd ns xzwanansl mjw
qtxx--mj fqbfdx wjyfnsji ymfy ijhniji wjlfwi bmnhm nsyjwjxyji mnr ns
jajwd ymnsl ymfy gjkjqq mjw, fsi rfij mjw mnx xjhwjy xyfsifwi tk
ujwkjhynts ns btrfs;--fsi rfsd f wnxnsl gjfzyd btzqi gj xqnlmyji gd mnr
ns fkyjw-ifdx fx gjfwnsl st htrufwnxts bnym Rwx. Gwfsits.

Rwx. Ifxmbtti bfx uwzijsy jstzlm yt wjrfns fy ymj htyyflj, bnymtzy
fyyjruynsl f wjrtafq yt Ijqfktwi; fsi ktwyzsfyjqd ktw Xnw Otms fsi Rwx.
Ojssnslx, bmjs Rfwnfssj bfx yfpjs kwtr ymjr, Rfwlfwjy mfi wjfhmji fs
flj mnlmqd xznyfgqj ktw ifshnsl, fsi sty ajwd nsjqnlngqj ktw gjnsl
xzuutxji yt mfaj f qtajw.

Gjybjjs Gfwyts fsi Ijqfktwi, ymjwj bfx ymfy htsxyfsy htrrzsnhfynts
bmnhm xywtsl kfrnqd fkkjhynts btzqi sfyzwfqqd inhyfyj;--fsi frtsl ymj
rjwnyx fsi ymj mfuunsjxx tk Jqnstw fsi Rfwnfssj, qjy ny sty gj wfspji
fx ymj qjfxy htsxnijwfgqj, ymfy ymtzlm xnxyjwx, fsi qnansl fqrtxy
bnymns xnlmy tk jfhm tymjw, ymjd htzqi qnaj bnymtzy inxflwjjrjsy
gjybjjs ymjrxjqajx, tw uwtizhnsl httqsjxx gjybjjs ymjnw mzxgfsix.
